.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 ClusterHQ Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH libzfs_core_init 3 "2015 JUL 3" "OpenZFS" "OpenZFS Programmer's Manual"

.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the OpenZFS Programmer's Manual.

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <libzfs_core.h>

\fBint\fR \fBlibzfs_core_init\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.sp
\fBvoid\fR \fBlibzfs_core_fini\fR(\fBvoid\fR);

.SH NAME
libzfs_core_init, libzfs_core_fini \- Initialize and deinitialize libzfs_core library.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBlibzfs_core_init\fR() function is a singleton constructor for the
libzfs_core library. It should be called once at program initialization.
Multiple calls to \fBlibzfs_core_init\fR() are fine provided that they be
matched by an equal number of alls to the \fBlibzfs_core_fini\fR() function.

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion of the \fBlibzfs_core_init\fR() function, 0 is
returned and a file descriptor is open for /dev/zfs. Otherwise, an error is
returned.
.sp
The \fBlibzfs_core_fini\fR() function returns no value and does not fail.
.BR
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBlibzfs_core_init\fR() function shall fail if \fBopen\fR(2) of /dev/zfs
fails. In this situation, the error code from \fBopen\fR(2) will be returned.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.LP
"\fIlibzfs_core.h\fR(3)", "\fIopen\fR(2)"
