'\" t
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 ClusterHQ Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH lzc_promote 3 "2015 JUL 7" "OpenZFS" "OpenZFS Programmer's Manual"

.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the OpenZFS Programmer's Manual.

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <libzfs_core.h>

\fBint\fR \fBlzc_promote\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIfsname\fR, \fBnvlist_t *\fR\fIopts\fR, \fBnvlist_t **\fR\fIoutnvl\fR);

.SH NAME
lzc_promote \- Reverse clone parent-child relationship

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBlzc_promote\fR() function promotes a clone file system \fIfsname\fR to
no longer be dependent on its "origin" snapshot. This makes it possible to
destroy the file system from which the clone was created. The clone
parent-child dependency relationship is reversed, so that the origin file
system becomes a clone of the specified file system.

The snapshot that was cloned, and any snapshots previous to this snapshot, are
now owned by the promoted clone. The space they use moves from the origin file
system to the promoted clone, so enough space must be available to accom‐
modate these snapshots. No new space is consumed by this operation, but the
space accounting is adjusted. The promoted clone must not have any conflicting
snapshot names of its own. The rename subcommand can be used to rename  any
conflicting snapshots.

The nvlist \fIopts\fR is reserved for future extensions that provide options
that alter the behavior of the lzc_promote() function. At the time of writing,
all data passed to it is ignored and callers should pass NULL to ensure that
behavior remains the same with future extensions.

The nvlist handle \fIoutnvl\fR is updated with a nvlist containing information
from the kernel when non-NULL. At present, a \fIconflsnap\fR string is provided
when a conflicting snapshot triggers EEXIST while a \fIparent\fR string is
provided on either success or a conflicting snapshot.

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise, an error is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBlzc_promote()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEBUSY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
There is a long hold on the dataset.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEEXIST\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The pool was uninitialized and a pool with the same GUID already existed.
.sp
There is a conflicting snapshot name. If \fIoutnvl\fR is non-NULL, it will be
updated with an nvlist containing the string \fIconflsnap\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The dataset name \fIfsname\fR is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENAMETOOLONG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The string \fIfsname\fR exceeds 256 characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Failed to allocate memory necessary to send \fIopts\fR to the kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Pool does not exist.
.sp
Loading unitialized pool from cachefile failed because the pool was exported or destroyed.
.sp
Internal error where uninitialized pool lacks a GUID in its config that was read from the cachefile.
.sp
The clone \fIfsname\fR does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOSPC\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Not enough space to update property.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOTDIR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
\fIfsname\fR is a snapshot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOTSOCK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
\fIfsname\fR is not a clone.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Permission denied by zone security policy.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibzfs_core.h\fR(3), \fBzfs\fR(8)
