'\" t
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 ClusterHQ Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH lzc_exists 3 "2015 JUL 7" "OpenZFS" "OpenZFS Programmer's Manual"

.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the OpenZFS Programmer's Manual.

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <libzfs_core.h>

\fBboolean_t\fR \fBlzc_exists\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIdataset\fR);

.SH NAME
lzc_exists \- Test for dataset existence.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
\fBlzc_exists\fR()
function tests whether
.I dataset
exists. It is more efficient than calling
\fBlzc_list\fR(),
but it does not apply to bookmarks.

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
On success, the
\fBlzc_exists\fR()
function returns a 0 (B_TRUE) when
.I dataset
exists and 1 (B_FALSE) when
.I dataset
does not exist. Failures are considered to be non-existence. However, errno
will be used to store the internal error code.

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
None

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibzfs_core.h\fR(3), \fBlzc_list\fR(3), \fBzfs\fR(8)
