'\" t
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 ClusterHQ Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH lzc_get_boomarks 3 "2015 JUL 7" "OpenZFS" "OpenZFS Programmer's Manual"

.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the OpenZFS Programmer's Manual. The location of
the header might vary on different systems.

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <libzfs_core.h>

\fBint\fR \fBlzc_get_bookmarks\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIfsname\fR, \fBnvlist_t *\fR\fIprops\fR, \fBnvlist_t **\fR\fIbmarks\fR);

.SH NAME
lzc_get_bookmarks \- Retrieve bookmarks of a given filesystem

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBlzc_get_bookmarks\fR() function will retrieve the list of bookmarks for
the given file system. The \fIprops\fR parameter is an nvlist of property names
(with no values) that will be returned for each bookmark. The \fIbmarks\fR
parameter is a pointer to a nvlist of the bookmarks. The caller is responsible
for freeing it with \fBnvlist_free\fR().

The format of the returned nvlist as follows:
.P
<short name of bookmark> -> {
    <name of property> -> {
        "value" -> uint64
     }
.br
}

The following are valid properties on bookmarks. All of them are uint64 values
in the nvlist:
.sp
.na
\fB\fBguid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS
Globally unique identifier of the referenced snapshot
.RE

.na
\fB\fBcreatetxg\fR\fR
.ad
.RS
Number of transaction group (txg) when the snapshot provided to the bookmark was created
.RE

.na
\fB\fBcreation\fR\fR
.RS
UNIX timestamp when the snapshot used to make the bookmark was created
.RE

.sp
Unsupported properties will be silently ignored.

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise, an error is returned.

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBlzc_inherit()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEEXIST\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The pool was uninitialized and a pool with the same GUID already existed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The dataset name \fIfsname\fR is invalid.
.sp
The nvlist \fIprops\fR is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENAMETOOLONG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The dataset name \fIfsname\fR exceeds 256 characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Pool does not exist.
.sp
Loading unitialized pool from cachefile failed because the pool was exported or destroyed.
.sp
Internal error where uninitialized pool lacks a GUID in its config that was read from the cachefile.
.sp
The dataset \fIfsname\fR does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Failed to allocate memory necessary to send \fIprops\fR to the kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Permission denied by zone security policy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBESRCH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
A specified, but valid, bookmark was not found. This merits a bug report.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibzfs_core.h\fR(3), \fBzfs\fR(8)
