'\" t
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 ClusterHQ Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH lzc_pool_configs 3 "2016 MAY 24" "OpenZFS" "OpenZFS Programmer's Manual"

.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the OpenZFS Programmer's Manual.

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <libzfs_core.h>

\fBint\fR \fBlzc_pool_configs\fR(\fBnvlist_t *\fR\fIopts\fR, \fBnvlist_t **\fR\fIconfigs\fR);

.SH NAME
lzc_pool_configs \- Get in-core pool configurations.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBlzc_pool_configs\fR() function will provide information about in-core pools.

.I opts
is presently unused. It is meant for future use.

.I configs
shall be a pointer to a nvlist_t pointer, On success, it will be updated to
point to an nvlist containing all pool configurations on the system. The format
will be that of the zpool.cache file.

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise, an error is returned.

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBlzc_pool_configs\fR() function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEEXIST\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
No pool configurations exist in-core.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
\fIconfigs\fR is a NULL pointer.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibzfs_core.h\fR(3), \fBlzc_pool_import\fR(3), \fBzdb\fR(8)
