'\" t
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 ClusterHQ Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH lzc_hold 7 "2015 JUL 8" "OpenZFS" "OpenZFS Programmer's Manual"

.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the OpenZFS Programmer's Manual.

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <libzfs_core.h>

\fBint\fR \fBlzc_hold\fR(\fBnvlist_t *\fR\fIholds\fR, \fBint\fR \fIcleanup_fd\fR, \fBnvlist_t **\fR\fIerrlist\fR);
.sp
\fBint\fR \fBlzc_hold_ext\fR(\fBnvlist_t *\fR\fIholds\fR, \fBnvlist_t *\fR\fIopts\fR, \fBnvlist_t **\fR\fIerrlist\fR);

.SH NAME
lzc_hold, lzc_hold_ext \- Creates user holds on snapshots

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBlzc_hold\fR() function creates user holds on snapshots. If there is a
hold on a snapshot, the snapshot can not be destroyed.
.sp
However, it can be marked for deletion by calling \fBlzc_destroy_snaps\fR()
with defer=B_TRUE. Snapshots preserved in the way shall be destroyed as the
user hold is removed.

.I snaps
shall be a nvlist of strings whose keys are snapshot names and whose values are
hold tags.

.I cleanup_fd
shall be a file descriptor that specifies thta the hold is temporary and is to
be closed when the specified file descriptor is closed. Specifying the file
descriptor 0 disables this behavior while specifying the file descriptor -1
shall make the hold close when the file descriptor for /dev/zfs held by the
library is closed.

.I opts
shall be either NULL or a pointer to a nvlist containing options that alter
behavior. It supports two options. One is "cleanup_fd", which shall behave the
same as the \fIcleanup_fd\fR argument to \fBlzc_hold\fR. The other is a string
named "log_history" that passes the command line invocation to the zpool
history log.

.I errlist
shall contain a handle that shall be used to store a pointer to a library
allocated nvlist when non-NULL and the operation for at least one hold fails.
The names of the holds shall be the keys while the values shall contain the
error codes and be of type int32.  Holds that failed to release because they
did not exist shall also have an entry added. It shall not be touched
otherwise.

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned.
.sp
On error, an error is returned from one of the holds where an error occurred
and \fI*errlist\fR is initialized with a pointer to a nvlist with more specific
information when \fIerrlist\fR is non-NULL. The caller must call
\fBnvlist_free\fR(\fI*errlist\fR) when this occurs.

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBlzc_hold()\fR function shall fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBE2BIG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The hold short name exceeds 256 or 238 in the case of a temporary
hold.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEBADF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The file descriptor \fIcleanup_fd\fR is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEEXIST\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The pool was uninitialized and a pool with the same GUID already existed.
.sp
A hold with a name specified in \fIsnaps\fR already exists.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The nvlist \fIsnaps\fR is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENAMETOOLONG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
A snapshot or hold name specified in \fIsnaps\fR nvlist exceeds 256 characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Pool does not exist.
.sp
Loading unitialized pool from cachefile failed because the pool was exported or destroyed.
.sp
Internal error where uninitialized pool lacks a GUID in its config that was read from the cachefile.
.sp
A snapshot specified in \fIsnaps\fR does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Failed to allocate memory necessary to send \fIsnaps\fR to the kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOTSUP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Called on a pool that is earlier than version 18.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Permission denied by zone security policy.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibzfs_core.h\fR(3), \fBlzc_get_holds\fR(3), \fBlzc_release\fR(3),
\fBzfs\fR(8)
