'\" t
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 ClusterHQ Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH lzc_bookmark 3 "2015 JUL 8" "OpenZFS" "OpenZFS Programmer's Manual"

.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the OpenZFS Programmer's Manual.

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <libzfs_core.h>

\fBint\fR \fBlzc_bookmark\fR(\fBnvlist_t *\fR\fIbookmarks\fR, \fBnvlist_t **\fR\fIerrlist\fR);
.sp
\fBint\fR \fBlzc_bookmark_ext\fR(\fBnvlist_t *\fR\fIbookmarks\fR, \fInvlist_t *\fR\fIopts\fR, \fBnvlist_t **\fR\fIerrlist\fR);

.SH NAME
lzc_bookmark, lzc_bookmark_ext() \- Creates bookmarks from snapshot

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBlzc_snapshot\fR() function creates atomic snapshots of all ZFS datasets
and/or volumes named in the \fIsnaps\fR nvlist. The \fBlzc_snapshot_ext\fR()
function adds the \fIopts\fR nvlist for passing options.

.I bookmarks
shall be a nvlist containing strings whose keys are bookmark names and values
are snapshot names to specify which bookmarks to create.  All bookmarks and
snapshots must be inside the same pool.

.I opts
shall be either NULL or a pointer to a nvlist containing options that alter
behavior. At present, it only permits the command invocation to be passed by a
string named "log_history" so that the command line invocation can be stored in
the zpool history log.

.I errlist
shall contain a handle that shall be used to store a pointer to a library
allocated nvlist when non-NULL and the operation for at least one hold fails.
The names of the holds shall be the keys while the values shall contain the
error codes and be of type int32. Holds that failed to release because they did
not exist shall also have an entry added. It shall not be touched otherwise.

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise, an error is returned.
.sp
On error, an error is returned from one of the holds where an error occurred
and \fI*errlist\fR is initialized with a pointer to a nvlist with more specific
information when \fIerrlist\fR is non-NULL. The caller must call
\fBnvlist_free\fR(\fI*errlist\fR) when this occurs.

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBlzc_bookmark()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEEXIST\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The pool was uninitialized and a pool with the same GUID already existed.
.sp
A bookmark with a name specified in \fIbookmarks\fR already exists.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Multiple bookmarks were specified in \fIbookmarks\fR with the same name.
.sp
The snapshot for a bookmark is not a syntactically valid snapshot.
.sp
\fIbookmarks\fR is not a valid nvlist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENAMETOOLONG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
A bookmark name in the \fIbookmarks\fR nvlist exceeds 256 characters.
.sp
A snapshot name in the \fIbookmarks\fR nvlist exceeds 256 characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Pool does not exist.
.sp
Loading unitialized pool from cachefile failed because the pool was exported or destroyed.
.sp
Internal error where uninitialized pool lacks a GUID in its config that was read from the cachefile.
.sp
A snapshot specified in \fIbookmarks\fR does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Failed to allocate memory necessary to send \fIbookmarks\fR to the
kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOTSUP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The bookmark feature flag is not enabled on this pool.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Permission denied by zone security policy.
.RE

\fB\fBEXDEV\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Multiple pools specified.
.sp
Multiple snapshots per filesystem specified.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibzfs_core.h\fR(3), \fBzfs\fR(8)
