'\" t
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 ClusterHQ Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH lzc_set_props 3 "2015 JUL 7" "OpenZFS" "OpenZFS Programmer's Manual"

.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the OpenZFS Programmer's Manual.

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <libzfs_core.h>

\fBint\fR \fBlzc_set_props\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIfsname\fR, \fBnvlist_t*\fR\fIprops\fR, \fBnvlist_t *\fR\fIopts\fR, \fBnvlist_t **\fR\fIerrlist\fR);

.SH NAME
lzc_set_props \- Set properties on a filesystem or volume

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBlzc_set_props\fR() function will set properties on a given dataset or volume.
.sp
.I fsname
is a string containing the name of a dataset or filesystem.
.sp
.I props
is a nvlist containing the properties to set. See \fBzfs\fR(8) for descriptions
of properties.
.sp
.I opts
is a nvlist containing additional options to pass to this command.
.sp
The \fIprops\fR parameter is an nvlist of property names
(with no values) that will be returned for each bookmark. The \fIbmarks\fR
parameter is a pointer to a nvlist of the bookmarks. The caller is responsible
for freeing it with \fBnvlist_free\fR().

The format of the returned nvlist as follows:
.P
<short name of bookmark> -> {
    <name of property> -> {
        "value" -> uint64
     }
.br
}

The following are valid properties on bookmarks. All of them are uint64 values
in the nvlist:
.sp
.na
\fB\fBguid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS
Globally unique identifier of the referenced snapshot
.RE

.na
\fB\fBcreatetxg\fR\fR
.ad
.RS
Number of transaction group (txg) when the snapshot provided to the bookmark was created
.RE

.na
\fB\fBcreation\fR\fR
.RS
UNIX timestamp when the snapshot used to make the bookmark was created
.RE
.sp
The \fIopts\fR argument supports these options:
.sp
.I received
A boolean property that specifies that the properties being set were received from a send stream.
.sp
.I noatomic
tells the kernel to handle failures by setting all properties that do not fail.
This is necessary when setting old-style special properties.
.sp
.I log_history
passes a string containing the userland command invocation for the zpool
history log.
.sp
There are 9 old-style special properties that cannot be set atomically with the others. They are:
.sp
filesystem_limit
.sp
groupquota@
.sp
groupused@
.sp
snapdev
.sp
snapshot_limit
.sp
userquota@
.sp
userused@
.sp
version
.sp
volsize
.sp
Unsupported properties will be silently ignored.

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned and all properties have been set. Otherwise, an error is returned.

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBlzc_inherit()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEEXIST\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The pool was uninitialized and a pool with the same GUID already existed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The dataset name \fIfsname\fR is invalid.
.sp
The nvlist \fIprops\fR is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENAMETOOLONG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The dataset name \fIfsname\fR exceeds 256 characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Pool does not exist.
.sp
Loading unitialized pool from cachefile failed because the pool was exported or destroyed.
.sp
Internal error where uninitialized pool lacks a GUID in its config that was read from the cachefile.
.sp
The dataset \fIfsname\fR does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Failed to allocate memory necessary to send \fIprops\fR to the kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Permission denied by zone security policy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOTSUP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
An old-style special property was specified without "noatomic" in \fBopts\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBESRCH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
A specified, but valid, bookmark was not found. This merits a bug report.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibzfs_core.h\fR(3), \fBzfs\fR(8)
