'\" t
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 ClusterHQ Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH lzc_get_holds 3 "2015 JUL 7" "OpenZFS" "OpenZFS Programmer's Manual"

.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the OpenZFS Programmer's Manual.

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <libzfs_core.h>

\fBint\fR \fBlzc_get_holds\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIsnapname\fR, \fBnvlist_t **\fR\fIholdsp\fR);

.SH NAME
lzc_get_holds \- Retrieve list of user holds on the specified snapshot.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBlzc_get_holds\fR() function returns a nvlist of holds on the snapshot.
The nvlist keys will be the short names of the holds while the nvlist values
will be uint64 numbers.  The numbers are internal identifiers that have no
application to userland in the current iteration of the libzfs_core API.

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, the \fBlzc_get_holds\fR() function returns 0 and fills in
\fI*holdsp\fR when \fIholdsp\R is non-NULL. On failure, the function returns an
error code.

.SH ERRORS
.BR lzc_get_holds ()
can fail with the following errors:

.TP
.B ENOENT
Pool does not exist, or if unintialized, the cachefile is out of
sync because loading the pool failed due to an exported or
destroyed pool.  If pool exists, snapshot does not exist.
.TP
.B EEXIST
The pool was uninitialized and a pool with the same GUID already
existed.

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise, an error is returned.

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBlzc_inherit()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEEXIST\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The pool was uninitialized and a pool with the same GUID already existed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The snapshot name \fIsnapname\fR is not syntactically correct.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENAMETOOLONG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The string \fIsnapname\fR exceeds 256 characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Pool does not exist.
.sp
Loading unitialized pool from cachefile failed because the pool was exported or
destroyed.
.sp
Internal error where uninitialized pool lacks a GUID in its config that was
read from the cachefile.
.sp
The snapshot \fIsnapname\fR does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Permission denied by zone security policy.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibzfs_core.h\fR(3), \fBlzc_hold\fR(3), \fBlzc_release\fR(3), \fBzfs\fR(8)
