'\" t
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 ClusterHQ Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH lzc_rename 3 "2015 JUL 8" "OpenZFS" "OpenZFS Programmer's Manual"

.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the OpenZFS Programmer's Manual.

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <libzfs_core.h>

\fBint\fR \fBlzc_rename\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIoldname\fR, \fBchar *\fR\fInewname\fR, \fBnvlist_t *\fR\fIopts\fR, \fBchar **\fR\fIerrname\fR);

.SH NAME
lzc_rename \- Rollback this filesystem or volume to its most recent snapshot.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBlzc_rename\fR() function will rename a dataset, volume or snapshot.

For legacy purposes, it will make an attempt to unmount the dataset, volume or
snapsot before a rename is done. To ensure atomicity, userland should unmount
the dataset, volume or snapshot before calling this.

.I oldname
shall be the name of the current dataset.

.I newname
shall be the new name of the dataset.

.I opts
shall be an nvlist_t that allows changes to the behavior. The only option
accepted at this time is the boolean "recursive" key. That will cause the
kernel to umount all snapshots of children in the .zfs snapshot directory.
This is intended to help handle collisions between \fBlzc_snapshot\fR() and
\fBlzc_rename()\fR().

.I errname
shall be a pointer to a string pointer. It can be NULL. It is only used when an
error occurs when renaming snapshots recursively.

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise, an error is returned.

If an error occurs on a recursive snapshot rename and \fIerrname\fR is
non-NULL, a strdup()-allocated string wll be returned via \fIerrname\fR. The
caller must free it with \fBstrfree\fR().

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBlzc_rename()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEBUSY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The dataset has a hold.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEEXIST\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The pool was uninitialized and a pool with the same GUID already existed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENAMETOOLONG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The string \fIfsname\fR exceeds 256 characters.
.sp
The string \fInewname\fR exceeds 256 characters.
.sp
The new name of a recursively renamed child snapshot would exceed 256
characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Pool does not exist.
.sp
Loading unitialized pool from cachefile failed because the pool was exported or destroyed.
.sp
Internal error where uninitialized pool lacks a GUID in its config that was read from the cachefile.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Permission denied by zone security policy.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibzfs_core.h\fR(3), \fBlzc_snapshot\fR(3), \fBstrdup\fR(3), \fBzfs\fR(8)
