'\" t
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 ClusterHQ Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH lzc_inherit 3 "2015 JUL 7" "OpenZFS" "OpenZFS Programmer's Manual"

.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the OpenZFS Programmer's Manual.

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <libzfs_core.h>

\fBint\fR \fBlzc_inherit\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIfsname\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIpropname\fR, \fBnvlist_t *\fR\fIopts\fR);

.SH NAME
lzc_inherit \- Reset dataset property to default value

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBlzc_inherit\fR() function shall atomically reset property \fIpropname\fR
of dataset \fIfsname\fR.  The \fIopts\fR nvlist permits changes to the command
behavior. At present, it permits the command invocation to be passed by a
string named "log_history".

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise, an error is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBlzc_inherit()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEEXIST\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The pool was uninitialized and a pool with the same GUID already existed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The dataset name \fIfsname\fR is invalid.
.sp
The property name \fIpropname\fR is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENAMETOOLONG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The string \fIpropname\fR exceeds 256 characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Failed to allocate memory necessary to send \fIopts\fR to the kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Pool does not exist.
.sp
Loading unitialized pool from cachefile failed because the pool was exported or destroyed.
.sp
Internal error where uninitialized pool lacks a GUID in its config that was read from the cachefile.
.sp
The dataset \fIfsname\fR does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOSPC\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Not enough space to update property.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOTSUP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Called \fBlzc_inherit()\fR for \fIpropname\fR property on a pool those version predates its introduction.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Permission denied by zone security policy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEROFS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Attempted to inherit volsize on readonly zvol.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibzfs_core.h\fR(3), \fBzfs\fR(8)
