'\" t
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 ClusterHQ Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH lzc_rollback 3 "2015 JUL 8" "OpenZFS" "OpenZFS Programmer's Manual"

.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the OpenZFS Programmer's Manual.

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <libzfs_core.h>

\fBint\fR \fBlzc_rollback\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIfsname\fR, \fBchar *\fR\fIsnapnamebuf\fR, \fBint\fR \fIsnapnamelen\fR);
.sp
\fBint\fR \fBlzc_rollback_ext\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIfsname\fR, \fBchar *\fR\fIsnapnamebuf\fR, \fBint\fR \fIsnapnamelen\fR, \fBnvlist_t *\fR\fIopts\fR);

.SH NAME
lzc_rollback, lzc_rollback_ext \- Rollback this filesystem or volume to its most recent snapshot. 

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBlzc_rollback\fR() function rolls back a live dataset or volume to its
most recent snapshot. The \fBlzc_rollback\fR() function behaves identically
when \fIopts\fR is NULL.

.I fsname
shall be the name of the most recent snapshot to rollback.

.I snapnamebuf
shall be a pointer to a string to fill with the name of the most recent
snapshot. If NULL, it wll be ignored.

.I snapnamelen
shall be the length of \fIsnapnamebuf\fR.

.I opts
shall be either NULL or a pointer to a nvlist containing options that alter
behavior. At present, it only permits the command invocation to be passed by a
string named "log_history" so that the command line invocation can be stored in
the zpool history log.

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned and \fIsnapnamebuf\fR is filled if
non-NULL. Otherwise, an error is returned.

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBlzc_rollback()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEBUSY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The dataset has a hold.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEDQUOT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The snapshot uses more data than th file system quota.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEEXIST\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The pool was uninitialized and a pool with the same GUID already existed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
\fIfsname\fR must be the most recent snapshot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENAMETOOLONG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The string \fIfsname\fR exceeds 256 characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Pool does not exist.
.sp
Loading unitialized pool from cachefile failed because the pool was exported or destroyed.
.sp
Internal error where uninitialized pool lacks a GUID in its config that was read from the cachefile.
.sp
A dataset or volume specified in \fIsnaps\fR does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOSPC\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Not enough space to rollback snapshot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Permission denied by zone security policy.
.RE
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibzfs_core.h\fR(3), \fBlzc_snapshot\fR(3), \fBzfs\fR(8)
