'\" t
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2013 Darik Horn <dajhorn@vanadac.com>. All rights reserved.
.\"
.Dd May 24, 2021
.Dt MOUNT.ZFS 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm mount.zfs
.Nd mount a ZFS filesystem
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl sfnvh
.Op Fl o Ar options
.Ar dataset
.Ar mountpoint
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is part of the zfsutils package for Linux. It is a helper program that
is usually invoked by the
.Xr mount 8
or
.Xr zfs 8
commands to mount a ZFS dataset.
.Pp
All
.Ar options
are handled according to the FILESYSTEM INDEPENDENT MOUNT OPTIONS
section in the
.Xr mount 8
manual, except for those described below.
.Pp
The
.Ar dataset
parameter is a ZFS filesystem name, as output by the
.Nm zfs Cm load-key Fl h Fl o Ar name
command. This parameter never has a leading slash character and is
not a device name.
.Pp
The
.Ar mountpoint
parameter is the path name of a directory.
.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "-o xa"
.It Fl s
Ignore bad or sloppy mount options.
.It Fl f
Do a fake mount; do not perform the mount operation.
.It Fl n
Do not update the /etc/mtab file.
.It Fl v
Increase verbosity.
.It Fl h
Print the usage message.
.It Fl o Ar context
This flag sets the SELinux context for all files in the filesystem
under that mountpoint.
.It Fl o Ar fscontext
This flag sets the SELinux context for the filesystem being mounted.
.It Fl o Ar defcontext
This flag sets the SELinux context for unlabeled files.
.It Fl o Ar rootcontext
This flag sets the SELinux context for the root inode of the filesystem.
.It Fl o Ar legacy
This private flag indicates that the
.Ar dataset
has an entry in the /etc/fstab file.
.It Fl o Ar noxattr
This private flag disables extended attributes.
.It Fl o Ar xattr
This private flag enables directory-based extended attributes and, if
appropriate, adds a ZFS context to the selinux system policy.
.It Fl o Ar saxattr
This private flag enables system attributed-based extended attributes and, if
appropriate, adds a ZFS context to the selinux system policy.
.It Fl o Ar dirxattr
Equivalent to
.Ar xattr .
.It Fl o Ar zfsutil
This private flag indicates that
.Xr mount 8
is being called by the
.Xr zfs 8
command.
.El
.
.Sh NOTES
ZFS conventionally requires that the
.Ar mountpoint
be an empty directory, but the Linux implementation inconsistently
enforces the requirement.
.Pp
The
.Nm
helper does not mount the contents of zvols.
.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/etc/fstab"
.It Pa /etc/fstab
The static filesystem table.
.It Pa /etc/mtab
The mounted filesystem table.
.El
.
.Sh AUTHORS
The primary author of
.Nm
is Brian Behlendorf <behlendorf1@llnl.gov>.
.Pp
This man page was written by Darik Horn <dajhorn@vanadac.com>.
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr fstab 5 ,
.Xr mount 8 ,
.Xr zfs 8
