.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://opensource.org/licenses/CDDL-1.0.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2011 Joshua M. Clulow <josh@sysmgr.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, 2019 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2013 by Saso Kiselkov. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Joyent, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 by Adam Stevko. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Integros [integros.com]
.\" Copyright 2019 Richard Laager. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2018 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright 2019 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd March 16, 2022
.Dt ZFS-LIST 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zfs-list
.Nd list properties of ZFS datasets
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zfs
.Cm list
.Op Fl r Ns | Ns Fl d Ar depth
.Op Fl Hp
.Oo Fl o Ar property Ns Oo , Ns Ar property Oc Ns … Oc
.Oo Fl s Ar property Oc Ns …
.Oo Fl S Ar property Oc Ns …
.Oo Fl t Ar type Ns Oo , Ns Ar type Oc Ns … Oc
.Oo Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar volume Ns | Ns Ar snapshot Oc Ns …
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
If specified, you can list property information by the absolute pathname or the
relative pathname.
By default, all file systems and volumes are displayed.
Snapshots are displayed if the
.Sy listsnapshots
pool property is
.Sy on
.Po the default is
.Sy off
.Pc ,
or if the
.Fl t Sy snapshot
or
.Fl t Sy all
options are specified.
The following fields are displayed:
.Sy name , Sy used , Sy available , Sy referenced , Sy mountpoint .
.Bl -tag -width "-H"
.It Fl H
Used for scripting mode.
Do not print headers and separate fields by a single tab instead of arbitrary
white space.
.It Fl d Ar depth
Recursively display any children of the dataset, limiting the recursion to
.Ar depth .
A
.Ar depth
of
.Sy 1
will display only the dataset and its direct children.
.It Fl o Ar property
A comma-separated list of properties to display.
The property must be:
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
One of the properties described in the
.Sx Native Properties
section of
.Xr zfsprops 7
.It
A user property
.It
The value
.Sy name
to display the dataset name
.It
The value
.Sy space
to display space usage properties on file systems and volumes.
This is a shortcut for specifying
.Fl o Ns \ \& Ns Sy name , Ns Sy avail , Ns Sy used , Ns Sy usedsnap , Ns
.Sy usedds , Ns Sy usedrefreserv , Ns Sy usedchild
.Fl t Sy filesystem , Ns Sy volume .
.El
.It Fl p
Display numbers in parsable
.Pq exact
values.
.It Fl r
Recursively display any children of the dataset on the command line.
.It Fl s Ar property
A property for sorting the output by column in ascending order based on the
value of the property.
The property must be one of the properties described in the
.Sx Properties
section of
.Xr zfsprops 7
or the value
.Sy name
to sort by the dataset name.
Multiple properties can be specified at one time using multiple
.Fl s
property options.
Multiple
.Fl s
options are evaluated from left to right in decreasing order of importance.
The following is a list of sorting criteria:
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
Numeric types sort in numeric order.
.It
String types sort in alphabetical order.
.It
Types inappropriate for a row sort that row to the literal bottom, regardless of
the specified ordering.
.El
.Pp
If no sorting options are specified the existing behavior of
.Nm zfs Cm list
is preserved.
.It Fl S Ar property
Same as
.Fl s ,
but sorts by property in descending order.
.It Fl t Ar type
A comma-separated list of types to display, where
.Ar type
is one of
.Sy filesystem ,
.Sy snapshot ,
.Sy volume ,
.Sy bookmark ,
or
.Sy all .
For example, specifying
.Fl t Sy snapshot
displays only snapshots.
.El
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.\" These are, respectively, examples 5 from zfs.8
.\" Make sure to update them bidirectionally
.Ss Example 1 : No Listing ZFS Datasets
The following command lists all active file systems and volumes in the system.
Snapshots are displayed if
.Sy listsnaps Ns = Ns Sy on .
The default is
.Sy off .
See
.Xr zpoolprops 7
for more information on pool properties.
.Bd -literal -compact -offset Ds
.No # Nm zfs Cm list
NAME                      USED  AVAIL  REFER  MOUNTPOINT
pool                      450K   457G    18K  /pool
pool/home                 315K   457G    21K  /export/home
pool/home/anne             18K   457G    18K  /export/home/anne
pool/home/bob             276K   457G   276K  /export/home/bob
.Ed
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zfsprops 7 ,
.Xr zfs-get 8
