.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CDDL-1.0
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://opensource.org/licenses/CDDL-1.0.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2011 Joshua M. Clulow <josh@sysmgr.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, 2019 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2013 by Saso Kiselkov. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Joyent, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 by Adam Stevko. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Integros [integros.com]
.\" Copyright 2019 Richard Laager. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2018 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright 2019 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd June 30, 2019
.Dt ZFS-UPGRADE 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zfs-upgrade
.Nd manage on-disk version of ZFS filesystems
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zfs
.Cm upgrade
.Nm zfs
.Cm upgrade
.Fl v
.Nm zfs
.Cm upgrade
.Op Fl r
.Op Fl V Ar version
.Fl a Ns | Ns Ar filesystem
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Bl -tag -width ""
.It Xo
.Nm zfs
.Cm upgrade
.Xc
Displays a list of file systems that are not the most recent version.
.It Xo
.Nm zfs
.Cm upgrade
.Fl v
.Xc
Displays a list of currently supported file system versions.
.It Xo
.Nm zfs
.Cm upgrade
.Op Fl r
.Op Fl V Ar version
.Fl a Ns | Ns Ar filesystem
.Xc
Upgrades file systems to a new on-disk version.
Once this is done, the file systems will no longer be accessible on systems
running older versions of ZFS.
.Nm zfs Cm send
streams generated from new snapshots of these file systems cannot be accessed on
systems running older versions of ZFS.
.Pp
In general, the file system version is independent of the pool version.
See
.Xr zpool-features 7
for information on features of ZFS storage pools.
.Pp
In some cases, the file system version and the pool version are interrelated and
the pool version must be upgraded before the file system version can be
upgraded.
.Bl -tag -width "filesystem"
.It Fl V Ar version
Upgrade to
.Ar version .
If not specified, upgrade to the most recent version.
This
option can only be used to increase the version number, and only up to the most
recent version supported by this version of ZFS.
.It Fl a
Upgrade all file systems on all imported pools.
.It Ar filesystem
Upgrade the specified file system.
.It Fl r
Upgrade the specified file system and all descendent file systems.
.El
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zpool-upgrade 8
