.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2011 Joshua M. Clulow <josh@sysmgr.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, 2019 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2013 by Saso Kiselkov. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Joyent, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 by Adam Stevko. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Integros [integros.com]
.\" Copyright 2019 Richard Laager. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2018 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright 2019 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd March 16, 2022
.Dt ZFS-CLONE 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zfs-clone
.Nd clone snapshot of ZFS dataset
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zfs
.Cm clone
.Op Fl p
.Oo Fl o Ar property Ns = Ns Ar value Oc Ns …
.Ar snapshot Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar volume
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
See the
.Sx Clones
section of
.Xr zfsconcepts 7
for details.
The target dataset can be located anywhere in the ZFS hierarchy,
and is created as the same type as the original.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl o Ar property Ns = Ns Ar value
Sets the specified property; see
.Nm zfs Cm create
for details.
.It Fl p
Creates all the non-existing parent datasets.
Datasets created in this manner are automatically mounted according to the
.Sy mountpoint
property inherited from their parent.
If the target filesystem or volume already exists, the operation completes
successfully.
.El
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.\" These are, respectively, examples 9, 10 from zfs.8
.\" Make sure to update them bidirectionally
.Ss Example 1 : No Creating a ZFS Clone
The following command creates a writable file system whose initial contents are
the same as
.Ar pool/home/bob@yesterday .
.Dl # Nm zfs Cm clone Ar pool/home/bob@yesterday pool/clone
.
.Ss Example 2 : No Promoting a ZFS Clone
The following commands illustrate how to test out changes to a file system, and
then replace the original file system with the changed one, using clones, clone
promotion, and renaming:
.Bd -literal -compact -offset Ds
.No # Nm zfs Cm create Ar pool/project/production
  populate /pool/project/production with data
.No # Nm zfs Cm snapshot Ar pool/project/production Ns @ Ns Ar today
.No # Nm zfs Cm clone Ar pool/project/production@today pool/project/beta
  make changes to /pool/project/beta and test them
.No # Nm zfs Cm promote Ar pool/project/beta
.No # Nm zfs Cm rename Ar pool/project/production pool/project/legacy
.No # Nm zfs Cm rename Ar pool/project/beta pool/project/production
  once the legacy version is no longer needed, it can be destroyed
.No # Nm zfs Cm destroy Ar pool/project/legacy
.Ed
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zfs-promote 8 ,
.Xr zfs-snapshot 8
