.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CDDL-1.0
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://opensource.org/licenses/CDDL-1.0.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2011 Joshua M. Clulow <josh@sysmgr.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, 2019 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2013 by Saso Kiselkov. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Joyent, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 by Adam Stevko. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Integros [integros.com]
.\" Copyright 2019 Richard Laager. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2018 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright 2019 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd July 11, 2022
.Dt ZFS-DIFF 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zfs-diff
.Nd show difference between ZFS snapshots
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zfs
.Cm diff
.Op Fl FHthj
.Ar snapshot Ar snapshot Ns | Ns Ar filesystem
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Display the difference between a snapshot of a given filesystem and another
snapshot of that filesystem from a later time or the current contents of the
filesystem.
The first column is a character indicating the type of change, the other columns
indicate pathname, new pathname
.Pq in case of rename ,
change in link count, and optionally file type and/or change time.
The types of change are:
.Bl -tag -compact -offset Ds -width "M"
.It Sy -
The path has been removed
.It Sy +
The path has been created
.It Sy M
The path has been modified
.It Sy R
The path has been renamed
.El
.Bl -tag -width "-F"
.It Fl F
Display an indication of the type of file, in a manner similar to the
.Fl F
option of
.Xr ls 1 .
.Bl -tag -compact -offset 2n -width "B"
.It Sy B
Block device
.It Sy C
Character device
.It Sy /
Directory
.It Sy >
Door
.It Sy |\&
Named pipe
.It Sy @
Symbolic link
.It Sy P
Event port
.It Sy =
Socket
.It Sy F
Regular file
.El
.It Fl H
Give more parsable tab-separated output, without header lines and without
arrows.
.It Fl t
Display the path's inode change time as the first column of output.
.It Fl h
Do not
.Sy \e0 Ns Ar ooo Ns -escape
non-ASCII paths.
.It Fl j
Output one JSON object per line
.Pq NDJSON
instead of the default text format.
Each object contains the following fields:
.Bl -tag -compact -offset 2n -width "change_type"
.It Sy change_type
One of
.Sy added , removed , modified , renamed .
.It Sy inode
ZFS object number, equal to
.Sy st_ino .
.It Sy gen
Transaction group (txg) in which the object was created.
The lower 32 bits equal
.Sy st_gen .
The combination of
.Sy inode
and
.Sy gen
uniquely identifies a file across its lifetime, even if the inode number
is later reused by a different object.
.It Sy file_type
One of
.Sy regular , directory , symlink , block , char , fifo , socket , door , port , unknown .
.It Sy mountpoint
Mount point of the dataset.
Prepend to
.Sy path
or
.Sy changes.path
to obtain the full filesystem path.
.It Sy path
Dataset-relative path of the object.
For renamed entries this is the new path after the rename.
.It Sy changes
Object describing what changed.
Present only for
.Sy renamed
and
.Sy modified
entries where a specific change is known.
Contains one or more of:
.Bl -tag -compact -offset 2n -width "nlink"
.It Sy path
Dataset-relative original path before rename.
Present only for
.Sy renamed
entries.
.It Sy nlink
Object with
.Sy from
and
.Sy to
fields containing the old and new hard link counts.
Present only for
.Sy modified
entries where the link count changed.
.It Sy mode
Object with
.Sy from
and
.Sy to
fields containing the old and new POSIX mode words.
Present only for
.Sy modified
entries where the mode changed.
.It Sy ctime
Object with
.Sy from
and
.Sy to
fields, each an array of
.Sy [seconds, nanoseconds] .
.Sy from
is absent for
.Sy added
entries;
.Sy to
is absent for
.Sy removed
entries.
Present only when
.Fl t
is also specified.
.El
The absence of
.Sy changes ,
or the absence of a particular field within it, does not mean the object
is otherwise unchanged.
Data content, file size, timestamps, and extended attributes may have
changed without being reflected here.
.El
.El
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.\" These are, respectively, examples 22 from zfs.8
.\" Make sure to update them bidirectionally
.Ss Example 1 : No Showing the differences between a snapshot and a ZFS Dataset
The following example shows how to see what has changed between a prior
snapshot of a ZFS dataset and its current state.
The
.Fl F
option is used to indicate type information for the files affected.
.Bd -literal -compact -offset Ds
.No # Nm zfs Cm diff Fl F Ar tank/test@before tank/test
M       /       /tank/test/
M       F       /tank/test/linked      (+1)
R       F       /tank/test/oldname -> /tank/test/newname
-       F       /tank/test/deleted
+       F       /tank/test/created
M       F       /tank/test/modified
.Ed
.Ss Example 2 : No Showing the differences as JSON
The following example shows the same changes in JSON format using the
.Fl j
option.
One object is emitted per line.
.Bd -literal -compact -offset Ds
.No # Nm zfs Cm diff Fl j Ar tank/test@before tank/test
{"change_type":"modified","mountpoint":"/tank/test","inode":2,"gen":6215,"file_type":"directory","path":"/d1","changes":{"mode":{"from":16877,"to":16832}}}
{"change_type":"modified","mountpoint":"/tank/test","inode":34,"gen":6213,"file_type":"directory","path":"/"}
{"change_type":"modified","mountpoint":"/tank/test","inode":128,"gen":6216,"file_type":"regular","path":"/d1/f1"}
{"change_type":"renamed","mountpoint":"/tank/test","inode":129,"gen":6218,"file_type":"regular","path":"/f3","changes":{"path":"/f2"}}
{"change_type":"added","mountpoint":"/tank/test","inode":130,"gen":6254,"file_type":"regular","path":"/d1/f5"}
.Ed
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zfs-snapshot 8
