.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2011 Joshua M. Clulow <josh@sysmgr.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, 2019 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2013 by Saso Kiselkov. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Joyent, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 by Adam Stevko. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Integros [integros.com]
.\" Copyright 2019 Richard Laager. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2018 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright 2019 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd February 16, 2019
.Dt ZFS-MOUNT 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm zfs Ns Pf - Cm mount
.Nd Manage mount state of ZFS file systems.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Cm mount
.Nm
.Cm mount
.Op Fl Oflv
.Op Fl o Ar options
.Fl a | Ar filesystem
.Nm
.Cm unmount
.Op Fl fu
.Fl a | Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar mountpoint
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Bl -tag -width ""
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm mount
.Xc
Displays all ZFS file systems currently mounted.
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm mount
.Op Fl Oflv
.Op Fl o Ar options
.Fl a | Ar filesystem
.Xc
Mount ZFS filesystem on a path described by its
.Sy mountpoint
property, if the path exists and is empty. If
.Sy mountpoint
is set to
.Em legacy ,
the filesystem should be instead mounted using
.Xr mount 8 .
.Bl -tag -width "-O"
.It Fl O
Perform an overlay mount. Allows mounting in non-empty
.Sy mountpoint .
See
.Xr mount 8
for more information.
.It Fl a
Mount all available ZFS file systems.
Invoked automatically as part of the boot process if configured.
.It Ar filesystem
Mount the specified filesystem.
.It Fl o Ar options
An optional, comma-separated list of mount options to use temporarily for the
duration of the mount.
See the
.Em Temporary Mount Point Properties
section of
.Xr zfsprops 8
for details.
.It Fl l
Load keys for encrypted filesystems as they are being mounted. This is
equivalent to executing
.Nm zfs Cm load-key
on each encryption root before mounting it. Note that if a filesystem has a
.Sy keylocation
of
.Sy prompt
this will cause the terminal to interactively block after asking for the key.
.It Fl v
Report mount progress.
.It Fl f
Attempt to force mounting of all filesystems, even those that couldn't normally be mounted (e.g. redacted datasets).
.El
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm unmount
.Op Fl fu
.Fl a | Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar mountpoint
.Xc
Unmounts currently mounted ZFS file systems.
.Bl -tag -width "-a"
.It Fl a
Unmount all available ZFS file systems.
Invoked automatically as part of the shutdown process.
.It Fl f
Forcefully unmount the file system, even if it is currently in use.
This option is not supported on Linux.
.It Fl u
Unload keys for any encryption roots unmounted by this command.
.It Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar mountpoint
Unmount the specified filesystem.
The command can also be given a path to a ZFS file system mount point on the
system.
.El
.El
