.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CDDL-1.0
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://opensource.org/licenses/CDDL-1.0.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2011 Joshua M. Clulow <josh@sysmgr.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, 2019 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2013 by Saso Kiselkov. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Joyent, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 by Adam Stevko. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Integros [integros.com]
.\" Copyright 2019 Richard Laager. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2018 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright 2019 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 9, 2026
.Dt ZFS-HOLD 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zfs-hold
.Nd hold ZFS snapshots or datasets to prevent their removal
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zfs
.Cm hold
.Op Fl r
.Ar tag Ar snapshot Ns | Ns Ar dataset Ns …
.Nm zfs
.Cm holds
.Op Fl rHp
.Ar snapshot Ns | Ns Ar dataset Ns …
.Nm zfs
.Cm release
.Op Fl r
.Ar tag Ar snapshot Ns | Ns Ar dataset Ns …
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Bl -tag -width ""
.It Xo
.Nm zfs
.Cm hold
.Op Fl r
.Ar tag Ar snapshot Ns | Ns Ar dataset Ns …
.Xc
Adds a single reference, named with the
.Ar tag
argument, to the specified snapshots or datasets
.Pq filesystems and volumes .
Each target has its own tag namespace, and tags must be unique within that
space.
.Pp
If a hold exists on a snapshot or dataset, attempts to destroy it with
.Nm zfs Cm destroy
return
.Sy EBUSY .
.Bl -tag -width "-r"
.It Fl r
Apply the hold recursively to the named target and all descendent
file systems
.Pq for snapshots, to the same-named snapshot of each descendent .
.El
.It Xo
.Nm zfs
.Cm holds
.Op Fl rHp
.Ar snapshot Ns | Ns Ar dataset Ns …
.Xc
Lists all existing user references for the given snapshots or datasets.
.Bl -tag -width "-r"
.It Fl r
List holds set on the named target and on all descendent file systems.
.It Fl H
Do not print headers, use tab-delimited output.
.It Fl p
Prints holds timestamps as Unix epoch timestamps.
.El
.It Xo
.Nm zfs
.Cm release
.Op Fl r
.Ar tag Ar snapshot Ns | Ns Ar dataset Ns …
.Xc
Removes a single reference, named with the
.Ar tag
argument, from the specified snapshots or datasets.
The tag must already exist for each target.
If a hold exists on a snapshot or dataset, attempts to destroy it with
.Nm zfs Cm destroy
return
.Sy EBUSY .
.Bl -tag -width "-r"
.It Fl r
Recursively release the hold from the named target and all descendent
file systems.
.El
.El
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zfs-destroy 8
