.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2011 Joshua M. Clulow <josh@sysmgr.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, 2019 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2013 by Saso Kiselkov. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Joyent, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 by Adam Stevko. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Integros [integros.com]
.\" Copyright 2019 Richard Laager. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2018 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright 2019 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd June 30, 2019
.Dt ZFS-PROJECT 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm zfs-project
.Nd List, set, or clear project ID and/or inherit flag on the file(s) or directories.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zfs
.Cm project
.Oo Fl d Ns | Ns Fl r Ns Oc
.Ar file Ns | Ns Ar directory Ns ...
.Nm zfs
.Cm project
.Fl C
.Oo Fl kr Ns Oc
.Ar file Ns | Ns Ar directory Ns ...
.Nm zfs
.Cm project
.Fl c
.Oo Fl 0 Ns Oc
.Oo Fl d Ns | Ns Fl r Ns Oc
.Op Fl p Ar id
.Ar file Ns | Ns Ar directory Ns ...
.Nm zfs
.Cm project
.Op Fl p Ar id
.Oo Fl rs Ns Oc
.Ar file Ns | Ns Ar directory Ns ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Bl -tag -width ""
.It Xo
.Nm zfs
.Cm project
.Oo Fl d Ns | Ns Fl r Ns Oc
.Ar file Ns | Ns Ar directory Ns ...
.Xc
List project identifier (ID) and inherit flag of file(s) or directories.
.Bl -tag -width "-d"
.It Fl d
Show the directory project ID and inherit flag, not its children. It will
overwrite the former specified
.Fl r
option.
.It Fl r
Show on subdirectories recursively. It will overwrite the former specified
.Fl d
option.
.El
.It Xo
.Nm zfs
.Cm project
.Fl C
.Oo Fl kr Ns Oc
.Ar file Ns | Ns Ar directory Ns ...
.Xc
Clear project inherit flag and/or ID on the file(s) or directories.
.Bl -tag -width "-k"
.It Fl k
Keep the project ID unchanged. If not specified, the project ID will be reset
as zero.
.It Fl r
Clear on subdirectories recursively.
.El
.It Xo
.Nm zfs
.Cm project
.Fl c
.Oo Fl 0 Ns Oc
.Oo Fl d Ns | Ns Fl r Ns Oc
.Op Fl p Ar id
.Ar file Ns | Ns Ar directory Ns ...
.Xc
Check project ID and inherit flag on the file(s) or directories, report the
entries without project inherit flag or with different project IDs from the
specified (via
.Fl p
option) value or the target directory's project ID.
.Bl -tag -width "-0"
.It Fl 0
Print file name with a trailing NUL instead of newline (by default), like
"find -print0".
.It Fl d
Check the directory project ID and inherit flag, not its children. It will
overwrite the former specified
.Fl r
option.
.It Fl p
Specify the referenced ID for comparing with the target file(s) or directories'
project IDs. If not specified, the target (top) directory's project ID will be
used as the referenced one.
.It Fl r
Check on subdirectories recursively. It will overwrite the former specified
.Fl d
option.
.El
.It Xo
.Nm zfs
.Cm project
.Op Fl p Ar id
.Oo Fl rs Ns Oc
.Ar file Ns | Ns Ar directory Ns ...
.Xc
Set project ID and/or inherit flag on the file(s) or directories.
.Bl -tag -width "-p"
.It Fl p
Set the file(s)' or directories' project ID with the given value.
.It Fl r
Set on subdirectories recursively.
.It Fl s
Set project inherit flag on the given file(s) or directories. It is usually used
for setup tree quota on the directory target with
.Fl r
option specified together. When setup tree quota, by default the directory's
project ID will be set to all its descendants unless you specify the project
ID via
.Fl p
option explicitly.
.El
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zfs-projectspace 8
