.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012, 2018 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Cyril Plisko. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Datto Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 George Melikov. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2017 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Open-E, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd August 9, 2019
.Dt ZFS-WAIT 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm zfs Ns Pf - Cm wait
.Nd Wait for background activity to stop in a ZFS filesystem
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Cm wait
.Op Fl t Ar activity Ns Oo , Ns Ar activity Ns Oc Ns ...
.Ar fs
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm wait
.Op Fl t Ar activity Ns Oo , Ns Ar activity Ns Oc Ns ...
.Ar fs
.Xc
Waits until all background activity of the given types has ceased in the given
filesystem.
The activity could cease because it has completed or because the filesystem has
been destroyed or unmounted.
If no activities are specified, the command waits until background activity of
every type listed below has ceased.
If there is no activity of the given types in progress, the command returns
immediately.
.Pp
These are the possible values for
.Ar activity ,
along with what each one waits for:
.Bd -literal
        deleteq       The filesystem's internal delete queue to empty
.Ed
.Pp
Note that the internal delete queue does not finish draining until
all large files have had time to be fully destroyed and all open file
handles to unlinked files are closed.
.El
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr lsof  8
