.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://opensource.org/licenses/CDDL-1.0.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2024 Klara, Inc.
.\" Copyright 2024 Mariusz Zaborski <oshogbo@FreeBSD.org>
.\"
.Dd February 21, 2024
.Dt ZFS-SCRUB 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zfs-scrub
.Nd run scrub of file in ZFS storage pools
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zfs
.Cm scrub
.Ar filename Ns
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Runs a scrub for a single file.
The scrub examines all data associated with a given file.
For replicated
.Pq mirror, raidz, or draid
devices, ZFS automatically repairs any damage discovered during the scrub.
The
.Nm zpool Cm status
command reports the progress of the scrub and summarizes the results of the
scrub upon completion.
For more details about scrubing, refer
.Xr zpool 8 .
.
.Pp
ZFS allows only on scrub process at a time (pool scrub or file scrub).
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zpool-scrub 8 ,
.Xr zpool-status 8
