.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2011 Joshua M. Clulow <josh@sysmgr.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, 2019 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, Pawel Jakub Dawidek <pjd@FreeBSD.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2012, Glen Barber <gjb@FreeBSD.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2012, Bryan Drewery <bdrewery@FreeBSD.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2013, Steven Hartland <smh@FreeBSD.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2013 by Saso Kiselkov. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Joyent, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 by Adam Stevko. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Integros [integros.com]
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Xin LI <delphij@FreeBSD.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2014-2015, The FreeBSD Foundation, All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2016 Nexenta Systems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2019 Richard Laager. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2018 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright 2019 Joyent, Inc.
.\" Copyright 2021 Klara, Inc.
.\"
.Dd June 3, 2022
.Dt ZFS-ZONE 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zfs-zone ,
.Nm zfs-unzone
.Nd attach and detach ZFS filesystems to user namespaces
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zfs Cm zone
.Ar nsfile
.Ar filesystem
.Nm zfs Cm unzone
.Ar nsfile
.Ar filesystem
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Bl -tag -width ""
.It Xo
.Nm zfs
.Cm zone
.Ar nsfile
.Ar filesystem
.Xc
Attach the specified
.Ar filesystem
to the user namespace identified by
.Ar nsfile .
From now on this file system tree can be managed from within a user namespace
if the
.Sy zoned
property has been set.
.Pp
You cannot attach a zoned dataset's children to another user namespace.
You can also not attach the root file system
of the user namespace or any dataset
which needs to be mounted before the zfs service
is run inside the user namespace,
as it would be attached unmounted until it is
mounted from the service inside the user namespace.
.Pp
To allow management of the dataset from within a user namespace, the
.Sy zoned
property has to be set and the user namespaces needs access to the
.Pa /dev/zfs
device.
The
.Sy quota
property cannot be changed from within a user namespace.
.Pp
After a dataset is attached to a user namespace and the
.Sy zoned
property is set,
a zoned file system cannot be mounted outside the user namespace,
since the user namespace administrator might have set the mount point
to an unacceptable value.
.It Xo
.Nm zfs
.Cm unzone
.Ar nsfile
.Ar filesystem
.Xc
Detach the specified
.Ar filesystem
from the user namespace identified by
.Ar nsfile .
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Ss Example 1 : No Delegating a Dataset to a User Namespace
The following example delegates the
.Ar tank/users
dataset to a user namespace identified by user namespace file
.Pa /proc/1234/ns/user .
.Dl # Nm zfs Cm zone Ar /proc/1234/ns/user Ar tank/users
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zfsprops 7
