.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2011 Joshua M. Clulow <josh@sysmgr.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, 2019 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2013 by Saso Kiselkov. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Joyent, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 by Adam Stevko. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Integros [integros.com]
.\" Copyright 2019 Richard Laager. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2018 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright 2019 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd March 16, 2022
.Dt ZFS-SET 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zfs-set
.Nd set properties on ZFS datasets
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zfs
.Cm set
.Ar property Ns = Ns Ar value Oo Ar property Ns = Ns Ar value Oc Ns …
.Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar volume Ns | Ns Ar snapshot Ns …
.Nm zfs
.Cm get
.Op Fl r Ns | Ns Fl d Ar depth
.Op Fl Hp
.Oo Fl o Ar field Ns Oo , Ns Ar field Oc Ns … Oc
.Oo Fl s Ar source Ns Oo , Ns Ar source Oc Ns … Oc
.Oo Fl t Ar type Ns Oo , Ns Ar type Oc Ns … Oc
.Cm all Ns | Ns Ar property Ns Oo , Ns Ar property Oc Ns …
.Oo Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar volume Ns | Ns Ar snapshot Ns | Ns Ar bookmark Oc Ns …
.Nm zfs
.Cm inherit
.Op Fl rS
.Ar property Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar volume Ns | Ns Ar snapshot Ns …
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Bl -tag -width ""
.It Xo
.Nm zfs
.Cm set
.Ar property Ns = Ns Ar value Oo Ar property Ns = Ns Ar value Oc Ns …
.Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar volume Ns | Ns Ar snapshot Ns …
.Xc
Only some properties can be edited.
See
.Xr zfsprops 7
for more information on what properties can be set and acceptable
values.
Numeric values can be specified as exact values, or in a human-readable form
with a suffix of
.Sy B , K , M , G , T , P , E , Z
.Po for bytes, kilobytes, megabytes, gigabytes, terabytes, petabytes, exabytes,
or zettabytes, respectively
.Pc .
User properties can be set on snapshots.
For more information, see the
.Em User Properties
section of
.Xr zfsprops 7 .
.It Xo
.Nm zfs
.Cm get
.Op Fl r Ns | Ns Fl d Ar depth
.Op Fl Hp
.Oo Fl o Ar field Ns Oo , Ns Ar field Oc Ns … Oc
.Oo Fl s Ar source Ns Oo , Ns Ar source Oc Ns … Oc
.Oo Fl t Ar type Ns Oo , Ns Ar type Oc Ns … Oc
.Cm all Ns | Ns Ar property Ns Oo , Ns Ar property Oc Ns …
.Oo Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar volume Ns | Ns Ar snapshot Ns | Ns Ar bookmark Oc Ns …
.Xc
Displays properties for the given datasets.
If no datasets are specified, then the command displays properties for all
datasets on the system.
For each property, the following columns are displayed:
.Bl -tag -compact -offset 4n -width "property"
.It Sy name
Dataset name
.It Sy property
Property name
.It Sy value
Property value
.It Sy source
Property source
.Sy local , default , inherited , temporary , received , No or Sy - Pq none .
.El
.Pp
All columns are displayed by default, though this can be controlled by using the
.Fl o
option.
This command takes a comma-separated list of properties as described in the
.Sx Native Properties
and
.Sx User Properties
sections of
.Xr zfsprops 7 .
.Pp
The value
.Sy all
can be used to display all properties that apply to the given dataset's type
.Pq Sy filesystem , volume , snapshot , No or Sy bookmark .
.Bl -tag -width "-s source"
.It Fl H
Display output in a form more easily parsed by scripts.
Any headers are omitted, and fields are explicitly separated by a single tab
instead of an arbitrary amount of space.
.It Fl d Ar depth
Recursively display any children of the dataset, limiting the recursion to
.Ar depth .
A depth of
.Sy 1
will display only the dataset and its direct children.
.It Fl o Ar field
A comma-separated list of columns to display, defaults to
.Sy name , Ns Sy property , Ns Sy value , Ns Sy source .
.It Fl p
Display numbers in parsable
.Pq exact
values.
.It Fl r
Recursively display properties for any children.
.It Fl s Ar source
A comma-separated list of sources to display.
Those properties coming from a source other than those in this list are ignored.
Each source must be one of the following:
.Sy local , default , inherited , temporary , received , No or Sy none .
The default value is all sources.
.It Fl t Ar type
A comma-separated list of types to display, where
.Ar type
is one of
.Sy filesystem , snapshot , volume , bookmark , No or Sy all .
.El
.It Xo
.Nm zfs
.Cm inherit
.Op Fl rS
.Ar property Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar volume Ns | Ns Ar snapshot Ns …
.Xc
Clears the specified property, causing it to be inherited from an ancestor,
restored to default if no ancestor has the property set, or with the
.Fl S
option reverted to the received value if one exists.
See
.Xr zfsprops 7
for a listing of default values, and details on which properties can be
inherited.
.Bl -tag -width "-r"
.It Fl r
Recursively inherit the given property for all children.
.It Fl S
Revert the property to the received value, if one exists;
otherwise, for non-inheritable properties, to the default;
otherwise, operate as if the
.Fl S
option was not specified.
.El
.El
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.\" These are, respectively, examples 1, 4, 6, 7, 11, 14, 16 from zfs.8
.\" Make sure to update them bidirectionally
.Ss Example 1 : No Creating a ZFS File System Hierarchy
The following commands create a file system named
.Ar pool/home
and a file system named
.Ar pool/home/bob .
The mount point
.Pa /export/home
is set for the parent file system, and is automatically inherited by the child
file system.
.Dl # Nm zfs Cm create Ar pool/home
.Dl # Nm zfs Cm set Sy mountpoint Ns = Ns Ar /export/home pool/home
.Dl # Nm zfs Cm create Ar pool/home/bob
.
.Ss Example 2 : No Disabling and Enabling File System Compression
The following command disables the
.Sy compression
property for all file systems under
.Ar pool/home .
The next command explicitly enables
.Sy compression
for
.Ar pool/home/anne .
.Dl # Nm zfs Cm set Sy compression Ns = Ns Sy off Ar pool/home
.Dl # Nm zfs Cm set Sy compression Ns = Ns Sy on Ar pool/home/anne
.
.Ss Example 3 : No Setting a Quota on a ZFS File System
The following command sets a quota of 50 Gbytes for
.Ar pool/home/bob :
.Dl # Nm zfs Cm set Sy quota Ns = Ns Ar 50G pool/home/bob
.
.Ss Example 4 : No Listing ZFS Properties
The following command lists all properties for
.Ar pool/home/bob :
.Bd -literal -compact -offset Ds
.No # Nm zfs Cm get Sy all Ar pool/home/bob
NAME           PROPERTY              VALUE                  SOURCE
pool/home/bob  type                  filesystem             -
pool/home/bob  creation              Tue Jul 21 15:53 2009  -
pool/home/bob  used                  21K                    -
pool/home/bob  available             20.0G                  -
pool/home/bob  referenced            21K                    -
pool/home/bob  compressratio         1.00x                  -
pool/home/bob  mounted               yes                    -
pool/home/bob  quota                 20G                    local
pool/home/bob  reservation           none                   default
pool/home/bob  recordsize            128K                   default
pool/home/bob  mountpoint            /pool/home/bob         default
pool/home/bob  sharenfs              off                    default
pool/home/bob  checksum              on                     default
pool/home/bob  compression           on                     local
pool/home/bob  atime                 on                     default
pool/home/bob  devices               on                     default
pool/home/bob  exec                  on                     default
pool/home/bob  setuid                on                     default
pool/home/bob  readonly              off                    default
pool/home/bob  zoned                 off                    default
pool/home/bob  snapdir               hidden                 default
pool/home/bob  acltype               off                    default
pool/home/bob  aclmode               discard                default
pool/home/bob  aclinherit            restricted             default
pool/home/bob  canmount              on                     default
pool/home/bob  xattr                 on                     default
pool/home/bob  copies                1                      default
pool/home/bob  version               4                      -
pool/home/bob  utf8only              off                    -
pool/home/bob  normalization         none                   -
pool/home/bob  casesensitivity       sensitive              -
pool/home/bob  vscan                 off                    default
pool/home/bob  nbmand                off                    default
pool/home/bob  sharesmb              off                    default
pool/home/bob  refquota              none                   default
pool/home/bob  refreservation        none                   default
pool/home/bob  primarycache          all                    default
pool/home/bob  secondarycache        all                    default
pool/home/bob  usedbysnapshots       0                      -
pool/home/bob  usedbydataset         21K                    -
pool/home/bob  usedbychildren        0                      -
pool/home/bob  usedbyrefreservation  0                      -
.Ed
.Pp
The following command gets a single property value:
.Bd -literal -compact -offset Ds
.No # Nm zfs Cm get Fl H o Sy value compression Ar pool/home/bob
on
.Ed
.Pp
The following command lists all properties with local settings for
.Ar pool/home/bob :
.Bd -literal -compact -offset Ds
.No # Nm zfs Cm get Fl r s Sy local Fl o Sy name , Ns Sy property , Ns Sy value all Ar pool/home/bob
NAME           PROPERTY              VALUE
pool/home/bob  quota                 20G
pool/home/bob  compression           on
.Ed
.
.Ss Example 5 : No Inheriting ZFS Properties
The following command causes
.Ar pool/home/bob No and Ar pool/home/anne
to inherit the
.Sy checksum
property from their parent.
.Dl # Nm zfs Cm inherit Sy checksum Ar pool/home/bob pool/home/anne
.
.Ss Example 6 : No Setting User Properties
The following example sets the user-defined
.Ar com.example : Ns Ar department
property for a dataset:
.Dl # Nm zfs Cm set Ar com.example : Ns Ar department Ns = Ns Ar 12345 tank/accounting
.
.Ss Example 7 : No Setting sharenfs Property Options on a ZFS File System
The following commands show how to set
.Sy sharenfs
property options to enable read-write
access for a set of IP addresses and to enable root access for system
.Qq neo
on the
.Ar tank/home
file system:
.Dl # Nm zfs Cm set Sy sharenfs Ns = Ns ' Ns Ar rw Ns =@123.123.0.0/16:[::1],root= Ns Ar neo Ns ' tank/home
.Pp
If you are using DNS for host name resolution,
specify the fully-qualified hostname.
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zfsprops 7 ,
.Xr zfs-list 8
