.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://opensource.org/licenses/CDDL-1.0.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2011 Joshua M. Clulow <josh@sysmgr.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, 2019 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2013 by Saso Kiselkov. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Joyent, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 by Adam Stevko. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Integros [integros.com]
.\" Copyright 2019 Richard Laager. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2018 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright 2019 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd March 16, 2022
.Dt ZFS-DESTROY 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zfs-destroy
.Nd destroy ZFS dataset, snapshots, or bookmark
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zfs
.Cm destroy
.Op Fl Rfnprv
.Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar volume
.Nm zfs
.Cm destroy
.Op Fl Rdnprv
.Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar volume Ns @ Ns Ar snap Ns
.Oo % Ns Ar snap Ns Oo , Ns Ar snap Ns Oo % Ns Ar snap Oc Oc Oc Ns …
.Nm zfs
.Cm destroy
.Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar volume Ns # Ns Ar bookmark
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Bl -tag -width ""
.It Xo
.Nm zfs
.Cm destroy
.Op Fl Rfnprv
.Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar volume
.Xc
Destroys the given dataset.
By default, the command unshares any file systems that are currently shared,
unmounts any file systems that are currently mounted, and refuses to destroy a
dataset that has active dependents
.Pq children or clones .
.Bl -tag -width "-R"
.It Fl R
Recursively destroy all dependents, including cloned file systems outside the
target hierarchy.
.It Fl f
Forcibly unmount file systems.
This option has no effect on non-file systems or unmounted file systems.
.It Fl n
Do a dry-run
.Pq Qq No-op
deletion.
No data will be deleted.
This is useful in conjunction with the
.Fl v
or
.Fl p
flags to determine what data would be deleted.
.It Fl p
Print machine-parsable verbose information about the deleted data.
.It Fl r
Recursively destroy all children.
.It Fl v
Print verbose information about the deleted data.
.El
.Pp
Extreme care should be taken when applying either the
.Fl r
or the
.Fl R
options, as they can destroy large portions of a pool and cause unexpected
behavior for mounted file systems in use.
.It Xo
.Nm zfs
.Cm destroy
.Op Fl Rdnprv
.Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar volume Ns @ Ns Ar snap Ns
.Oo % Ns Ar snap Ns Oo , Ns Ar snap Ns Oo % Ns Ar snap Oc Oc Oc Ns …
.Xc
The given snapshots are destroyed immediately if and only if the
.Nm zfs Cm destroy
command without the
.Fl d
option would have destroyed it.
Such immediate destruction would occur, for example, if the snapshot had no
clones and the user-initiated reference count were zero.
.Pp
If a snapshot does not qualify for immediate destruction, it is marked for
deferred deletion.
In this state, it exists as a usable, visible snapshot until both of the
preconditions listed above are met, at which point it is destroyed.
.Pp
An inclusive range of snapshots may be specified by separating the first and
last snapshots with a percent sign.
The first and/or last snapshots may be left blank, in which case the
filesystem's oldest or newest snapshot will be implied.
.Pp
Multiple snapshots
.Pq or ranges of snapshots
of the same filesystem or volume may be specified in a comma-separated list of
snapshots.
Only the snapshot's short name
.Po the part after the
.Sy @
.Pc
should be specified when using a range or comma-separated list to identify
multiple snapshots.
.Bl -tag -width "-R"
.It Fl R
Recursively destroy all clones of these snapshots, including the clones,
snapshots, and children.
If this flag is specified, the
.Fl d
flag will have no effect.
.It Fl d
Destroy immediately.
If a snapshot cannot be destroyed now, mark it for deferred destruction.
.It Fl n
Do a dry-run
.Pq Qq No-op
deletion.
No data will be deleted.
This is useful in conjunction with the
.Fl p
or
.Fl v
flags to determine what data would be deleted.
.It Fl p
Print machine-parsable verbose information about the deleted data.
.It Fl r
Destroy
.Pq or mark for deferred deletion
all snapshots with this name in descendent file systems.
.It Fl v
Print verbose information about the deleted data.
.Pp
Extreme care should be taken when applying either the
.Fl r
or the
.Fl R
options, as they can destroy large portions of a pool and cause unexpected
behavior for mounted file systems in use.
.El
.It Xo
.Nm zfs
.Cm destroy
.Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar volume Ns # Ns Ar bookmark
.Xc
The given bookmark is destroyed.
.El
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.\" These are, respectively, examples 3, 10, 15 from zfs.8
.\" Make sure to update them bidirectionally
.Ss Example 1 : No Creating and Destroying Multiple Snapshots
The following command creates snapshots named
.Ar yesterday No of Ar pool/home
and all of its descendent file systems.
Each snapshot is mounted on demand in the
.Pa .zfs/snapshot
directory at the root of its file system.
The second command destroys the newly created snapshots.
.Dl # Nm zfs Cm snapshot Fl r Ar pool/home Ns @ Ns Ar yesterday
.Dl # Nm zfs Cm destroy Fl r Ar pool/home Ns @ Ns Ar yesterday
.
.Ss Example 2 : No Promoting a ZFS Clone
The following commands illustrate how to test out changes to a file system, and
then replace the original file system with the changed one, using clones, clone
promotion, and renaming:
.Bd -literal -compact -offset Ds
.No # Nm zfs Cm create Ar pool/project/production
  populate /pool/project/production with data
.No # Nm zfs Cm snapshot Ar pool/project/production Ns @ Ns Ar today
.No # Nm zfs Cm clone Ar pool/project/production@today pool/project/beta
  make changes to /pool/project/beta and test them
.No # Nm zfs Cm promote Ar pool/project/beta
.No # Nm zfs Cm rename Ar pool/project/production pool/project/legacy
.No # Nm zfs Cm rename Ar pool/project/beta pool/project/production
  once the legacy version is no longer needed, it can be destroyed
.No # Nm zfs Cm destroy Ar pool/project/legacy
.Ed
.
.Ss Example 3 : No Performing a Rolling Snapshot
The following example shows how to maintain a history of snapshots with a
consistent naming scheme.
To keep a week's worth of snapshots, the user destroys the oldest snapshot,
renames the remaining snapshots, and then creates a new snapshot, as follows:
.Bd -literal -compact -offset Ds
.No # Nm zfs Cm destroy Fl r Ar pool/users@7daysago
.No # Nm zfs Cm rename Fl r Ar pool/users@6daysago No @ Ns Ar 7daysago
.No # Nm zfs Cm rename Fl r Ar pool/users@5daysago No @ Ns Ar 6daysago
.No # Nm zfs Cm rename Fl r Ar pool/users@4daysago No @ Ns Ar 5daysago
.No # Nm zfs Cm rename Fl r Ar pool/users@3daysago No @ Ns Ar 4daysago
.No # Nm zfs Cm rename Fl r Ar pool/users@2daysago No @ Ns Ar 3daysago
.No # Nm zfs Cm rename Fl r Ar pool/users@yesterday No @ Ns Ar 2daysago
.No # Nm zfs Cm rename Fl r Ar pool/users@today No @ Ns Ar yesterday
.No # Nm zfs Cm snapshot Fl r Ar pool/users Ns @ Ns Ar today
.Ed
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zfs-create 8 ,
.Xr zfs-hold 8
