.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://opensource.org/licenses/CDDL-1.0.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2011 Joshua M. Clulow <josh@sysmgr.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, 2019 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2013 by Saso Kiselkov. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Joyent, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 by Adam Stevko. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Integros [integros.com]
.\" Copyright 2019 Richard Laager. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2018 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright 2019 Joyent, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2019, 2020 by Christian Schwarz. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd May 12, 2022
.Dt ZFS-BOOKMARK 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zfs-bookmark
.Nd create bookmark of ZFS snapshot
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zfs
.Cm bookmark
.Ar snapshot Ns | Ns Ar bookmark
.Ar newbookmark
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Creates a new bookmark of the given snapshot or bookmark.
Bookmarks mark the point in time when the snapshot was created, and can be used
as the incremental source for a
.Nm zfs Cm send .
.Pp
When creating a bookmark from an existing redaction bookmark, the resulting
bookmark is
.Em not
a redaction bookmark.
.Pp
This feature must be enabled to be used.
See
.Xr zpool-features 7
for details on ZFS feature flags and the
.Sy bookmarks
feature.
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.\" These are, respectively, examples 23 from zfs.8
.\" Make sure to update them bidirectionally
.Ss Example 1 : No Creating a bookmark
The following example creates a bookmark to a snapshot.
This bookmark can then be used instead of a snapshot in send streams.
.Dl # Nm zfs Cm bookmark Ar rpool Ns @ Ns Ar snapshot rpool Ns # Ns Ar bookmark
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zfs-destroy 8 ,
.Xr zfs-send 8 ,
.Xr zfs-snapshot 8
