.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2011 Joshua M. Clulow <josh@sysmgr.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, 2019 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2013 by Saso Kiselkov. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Joyent, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 by Adam Stevko. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Integros [integros.com]
.\" Copyright 2019 Richard Laager. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2018 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright 2019 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 17, 2021
.Dt ZFS-SHARE 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zfs-share
.Nd share and unshare ZFS filesystems
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zfs
.Cm share
.Op Fl l
.Fl a Ns | Ns Ar filesystem
.Nm zfs
.Cm unshare
.Fl a Ns | Ns Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar mountpoint
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Bl -tag -width ""
.It Xo
.Nm zfs
.Cm share
.Op Fl l
.Fl a Ns | Ns Ar filesystem
.Xc
Shares available ZFS file systems.
.Bl -tag -width "-a"
.It Fl l
Load keys for encrypted filesystems as they are being mounted.
This is equivalent to executing
.Nm zfs Cm load-key
on each encryption root before mounting it.
Note that if a filesystem has
.Sy keylocation Ns = Ns Sy prompt ,
this will cause the terminal to interactively block after asking for the key.
.It Fl a
Share all available ZFS file systems.
Invoked automatically as part of the boot process.
.It Ar filesystem
Share the specified filesystem according to the
.Sy sharenfs
and
.Sy sharesmb
properties.
File systems are shared when the
.Sy sharenfs
or
.Sy sharesmb
property is set.
.El
.It Xo
.Nm zfs
.Cm unshare
.Fl a Ns | Ns Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar mountpoint
.Xc
Unshares currently shared ZFS file systems.
.Bl -tag -width "-a"
.It Fl a
Unshare all available ZFS file systems.
Invoked automatically as part of the shutdown process.
.It Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar mountpoint
Unshare the specified filesystem.
The command can also be given a path to a ZFS file system shared on the system.
.El
.El
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr exports 5 ,
.Xr smb.conf 5 ,
.Xr zfsprops 7
