.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2011 Joshua M. Clulow <josh@sysmgr.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, 2019 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2013 by Saso Kiselkov. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Joyent, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 by Adam Stevko. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Integros [integros.com]
.\" Copyright 2019 Richard Laager. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2018 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright 2019 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd March 16, 2022
.Dt ZFS-ROLLBACK 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zfs-rollback
.Nd roll ZFS dataset back to snapshot
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zfs
.Cm rollback
.Op Fl Rfr
.Ar snapshot
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
When a dataset is rolled back, all data that has changed since the snapshot is
discarded, and the dataset reverts to the state at the time of the snapshot.
By default, the command refuses to roll back to a snapshot other than the most
recent one.
In order to do so, all intermediate snapshots and bookmarks must be destroyed by
specifying the
.Fl r
option.
.Pp
The
.Fl rR
options do not recursively destroy the child snapshots of a recursive snapshot.
Only direct snapshots of the specified filesystem are destroyed by either of
these options.
To completely roll back a recursive snapshot, you must roll back the individual
child snapshots.
.Bl -tag -width "-R"
.It Fl R
Destroy any more recent snapshots and bookmarks, as well as any clones of those
snapshots.
.It Fl f
Used with the
.Fl R
option to force an unmount of any clone file systems that are to be destroyed.
.It Fl r
Destroy any snapshots and bookmarks more recent than the one specified.
.El
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.\" These are, respectively, examples 8 from zfs.8
.\" Make sure to update them bidirectionally
.Ss Example 8 : No Rolling Back a ZFS File System
The following command reverts the contents of
.Ar pool/home/anne
to the snapshot named
.Ar yesterday ,
deleting all intermediate snapshots:
.Dl # Nm zfs Cm rollback Fl r Ar pool/home/anne Ns @ Ns Ar yesterday
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zfs-snapshot 8
