.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://opensource.org/licenses/CDDL-1.0.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2011 Joshua M. Clulow <josh@sysmgr.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, 2019 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2013 by Saso Kiselkov. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Joyent, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 by Adam Stevko. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Integros [integros.com]
.\" Copyright 2019 Richard Laager. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2018 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright 2019 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd March 16, 2022
.Dt ZFS-RENAME 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zfs-rename
.Nd rename ZFS dataset
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zfs
.Cm rename
.Op Fl f
.Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar volume Ns | Ns Ar snapshot
.Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar volume Ns | Ns Ar snapshot
.Nm zfs
.Cm rename
.Fl p
.Op Fl f
.Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar volume
.Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar volume
.Nm zfs
.Cm rename
.Fl u
.Op Fl f
.Ar filesystem Ar filesystem
.Nm zfs
.Cm rename
.Fl r
.Ar snapshot Ar snapshot
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Bl -tag -width ""
.It Xo
.Nm zfs
.Cm rename
.Op Fl f
.Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar volume Ns | Ns Ar snapshot
.Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar volume Ns | Ns Ar snapshot
.Xc
.It Xo
.Nm zfs
.Cm rename
.Fl p
.Op Fl f
.Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar volume
.Ar filesystem Ns | Ns Ar volume
.Xc
.It Xo
.Nm zfs
.Cm rename
.Fl u
.Op Fl f
.Ar filesystem
.Ar filesystem
.Xc
Renames the given dataset.
The new target can be located anywhere in the ZFS hierarchy, with the exception
of snapshots.
Snapshots can only be renamed within the parent file system or volume.
When renaming a snapshot, the parent file system of the snapshot does not need
to be specified as part of the second argument.
Renamed file systems can inherit new mount points, in which case they are
unmounted and remounted at the new mount point.
.Bl -tag -width "-a"
.It Fl f
Force unmount any file systems that need to be unmounted in the process.
This flag has no effect if used together with the
.Fl u
flag.
.It Fl p
Creates all the nonexistent parent datasets.
Datasets created in this manner are automatically mounted according to the
.Sy mountpoint
property inherited from their parent.
.It Fl u
Do not remount file systems during rename.
If a file system's
.Sy mountpoint
property is set to
.Sy legacy
or
.Sy none ,
the file system is not unmounted even if this option is not given.
.El
.It Xo
.Nm zfs
.Cm rename
.Fl r
.Ar snapshot Ar snapshot
.Xc
Recursively rename the snapshots of all descendent datasets.
Snapshots are the only dataset that can be renamed recursively.
.El
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.\" These are, respectively, examples 10, 15 from zfs.8
.\" Make sure to update them bidirectionally
.Ss Example 1 : No Promoting a ZFS Clone
The following commands illustrate how to test out changes to a file system, and
then replace the original file system with the changed one, using clones, clone
promotion, and renaming:
.Bd -literal -compact -offset Ds
.No # Nm zfs Cm create Ar pool/project/production
  populate /pool/project/production with data
.No # Nm zfs Cm snapshot Ar pool/project/production Ns @ Ns Ar today
.No # Nm zfs Cm clone Ar pool/project/production@today pool/project/beta
  make changes to /pool/project/beta and test them
.No # Nm zfs Cm promote Ar pool/project/beta
.No # Nm zfs Cm rename Ar pool/project/production pool/project/legacy
.No # Nm zfs Cm rename Ar pool/project/beta pool/project/production
  once the legacy version is no longer needed, it can be destroyed
.No # Nm zfs Cm destroy Ar pool/project/legacy
.Ed
.
.Ss Example 2 : No Performing a Rolling Snapshot
The following example shows how to maintain a history of snapshots with a
consistent naming scheme.
To keep a week's worth of snapshots, the user destroys the oldest snapshot,
renames the remaining snapshots, and then creates a new snapshot, as follows:
.Bd -literal -compact -offset Ds
.No # Nm zfs Cm destroy Fl r Ar pool/users@7daysago
.No # Nm zfs Cm rename Fl r Ar pool/users@6daysago No @ Ns Ar 7daysago
.No # Nm zfs Cm rename Fl r Ar pool/users@5daysago No @ Ns Ar 6daysago
.No # Nm zfs Cm rename Fl r Ar pool/users@4daysago No @ Ns Ar 5daysago
.No # Nm zfs Cm rename Fl r Ar pool/users@3daysago No @ Ns Ar 4daysago
.No # Nm zfs Cm rename Fl r Ar pool/users@2daysago No @ Ns Ar 3daysago
.No # Nm zfs Cm rename Fl r Ar pool/users@yesterday No @ Ns Ar 2daysago
.No # Nm zfs Cm rename Fl r Ar pool/users@today No @ Ns Ar yesterday
.No # Nm zfs Cm snapshot Fl r Ar pool/users Ns @ Ns Ar today
.Ed
