.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://opensource.org/licenses/CDDL-1.0.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012, 2018 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Cyril Plisko. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Datto Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 George Melikov. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2017 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Open-E, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd March 16, 2022
.Dt ZPOOL-STATUS 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zpool-status
.Nd show detailed health status for ZFS storage pools
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zpool
.Cm status
.Op Fl DigLpPstvx
.Op Fl T Sy u Ns | Ns Sy d
.Op Fl c Op Ar SCRIPT1 Ns Oo , Ns Ar SCRIPT2 Oc Ns …
.Oo Ar pool Oc Ns …
.Op Ar interval Op Ar count
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Displays the detailed health status for the given pools.
If no
.Ar pool
is specified, then the status of each pool in the system is displayed.
For more information on pool and device health, see the
.Sx Device Failure and Recovery
section of
.Xr zpoolconcepts 7 .
.Pp
If a scrub or resilver is in progress, this command reports the percentage done
and the estimated time to completion.
Both of these are only approximate, because the amount of data in the pool and
the other workloads on the system can change.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c Op Ar SCRIPT1 Ns Oo , Ns Ar SCRIPT2 Oc Ns …
Run a script (or scripts) on each vdev and include the output as a new column
in the
.Nm zpool Cm status
output.
See the
.Fl c
option of
.Nm zpool Cm iostat
for complete details.
.It Fl i
Display vdev initialization status.
.It Fl g
Display vdev GUIDs instead of the normal device names
These GUIDs can be used in place of device names for the zpool
detach/offline/remove/replace commands.
.It Fl L
Display real paths for vdevs resolving all symbolic links.
This can be used to look up the current block device name regardless of the
.Pa /dev/disk/
path used to open it.
.It Fl p
Display numbers in parsable (exact) values.
.It Fl P
Display full paths for vdevs instead of only the last component of
the path.
This can be used in conjunction with the
.Fl L
flag.
.It Fl D
Display a histogram of deduplication statistics, showing the allocated
.Pq physically present on disk
and referenced
.Pq logically referenced in the pool
block counts and sizes by reference count.
.It Fl s
Display the number of leaf vdev slow I/O operations.
This is the number of I/O operations that didn't complete in
.Sy zio_slow_io_ms
milliseconds
.Pq Sy 30000 No by default .
This does not necessarily mean the I/O operations failed to complete, just took an
unreasonably long amount of time.
This may indicate a problem with the underlying storage.
.It Fl t
Display vdev TRIM status.
.It Fl T Sy u Ns | Ns Sy d
Display a time stamp.
Specify
.Sy u
for a printed representation of the internal representation of time.
See
.Xr time 2 .
Specify
.Sy d
for standard date format.
See
.Xr date 1 .
.It Fl v
Displays verbose data error information, printing out a complete list of all
data errors since the last complete pool scrub.
.It Fl x
Only display status for pools that are exhibiting errors or are otherwise
unavailable.
Warnings about pools not using the latest on-disk format will not be included.
.El
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.\" These are, respectively, examples 16 from zpool.8
.\" Make sure to update them bidirectionally
.Ss Example 1 : No Adding output columns
Additional columns can be added to the
.Nm zpool Cm status No and Nm zpool Cm iostat No output with Fl c .
.Bd -literal -compact -offset Ds
.No # Nm zpool Cm status Fl c Pa vendor , Ns Pa model , Ns Pa size
   NAME     STATE  READ WRITE CKSUM vendor  model        size
   tank     ONLINE 0    0     0
   mirror-0 ONLINE 0    0     0
   U1       ONLINE 0    0     0     SEAGATE ST8000NM0075 7.3T
   U10      ONLINE 0    0     0     SEAGATE ST8000NM0075 7.3T
   U11      ONLINE 0    0     0     SEAGATE ST8000NM0075 7.3T
   U12      ONLINE 0    0     0     SEAGATE ST8000NM0075 7.3T
   U13      ONLINE 0    0     0     SEAGATE ST8000NM0075 7.3T
   U14      ONLINE 0    0     0     SEAGATE ST8000NM0075 7.3T

.No # Nm zpool Cm iostat Fl vc Pa size
              capacity     operations     bandwidth
pool        alloc   free   read  write   read  write  size
----------  -----  -----  -----  -----  -----  -----  ----
rpool       14.6G  54.9G      4     55   250K  2.69M
  sda1      14.6G  54.9G      4     55   250K  2.69M   70G
----------  -----  -----  -----  -----  -----  -----  ----
.Ed
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zpool-events 8 ,
.Xr zpool-history 8 ,
.Xr zpool-iostat 8 ,
.Xr zpool-list 8 ,
.Xr zpool-resilver 8 ,
.Xr zpool-scrub 8 ,
.Xr zpool-wait 8
