.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CDDL-1.0
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2024-2026, Klara, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2026, TrueNAS.
.\"
.Dd April 6, 2026
.Dt ZPOOL-CONDENSE 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zpool-condense
.Nd Condense, flush, garbage collect or otherwise clean up pool metadata
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zpool
.Cm condense
.Op Fl t Ar target
.Op Fl c | w
.Fl a Ns | Ns Ar pool Ns …
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Many internal pool metadata updates are performed in the background at a rate
chosen to limit the performance impact to normal use of the pool.
Sometimes it is desirable to accelerate these operations,
even if it affects overall performance.
.Sy condense
allows an operator to request that a specific background operation be
prioritised to complete as soon as possible.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl t , -target
What to condense.
If not specified, all targets will be condensed.
These are the possible values for
.Ar target :
.Bl -tag -compact -offset Ds -width "..."
.It Sy ...
...
.El
.It Fl a , -all
Begin, cancel or wait on condense for all pools.
.It Fl c , -cancel
Cancel a previous
.Sy condense .
This will return background updates to their normal rate.
.It Fl w , -wait
Wait until the condense has completed before returning.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zpool-status 8 ,
.Xr zpool-wait 8
