.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://opensource.org/licenses/CDDL-1.0.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012, 2018 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Cyril Plisko. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Datto Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 George Melikov. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2017 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Open-E, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd May 27, 2021
.Dt ZPOOL-INITIALIZE 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zpool-initialize
.Nd write to unallocated regions of ZFS storage pool
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zpool
.Cm initialize
.Op Fl c Ns | Ns Fl s
.Op Fl w
.Ar pool
.Oo Ar device Oc Ns …
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Begins initializing by writing to all unallocated regions on the specified
devices, or all eligible devices in the pool if no individual devices are
specified.
Only leaf data or log devices may be initialized.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c , -cancel
Cancel initializing on the specified devices, or all eligible devices if none
are specified.
If one or more target devices are invalid or are not currently being
initialized, the command will fail and no cancellation will occur on any device.
.It Fl s , -suspend
Suspend initializing on the specified devices, or all eligible devices if none
are specified.
If one or more target devices are invalid or are not currently being
initialized, the command will fail and no suspension will occur on any device.
Initializing can then be resumed by running
.Nm zpool Cm initialize
with no flags on the relevant target devices.
.It Fl w , -wait
Wait until the devices have finished initializing before returning.
.El
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zpool-add 8 ,
.Xr zpool-attach 8 ,
.Xr zpool-create 8 ,
.Xr zpool-online 8 ,
.Xr zpool-replace 8 ,
.Xr zpool-trim 8
