.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012, 2018 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Cyril Plisko. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Datto Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 George Melikov. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2017 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Open-E, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd May 27, 2021
.Dt ZPOOL-CLEAR 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zpool-clear
.Nd clear device errors in ZFS storage pool
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zpool
.Cm clear
.Op Fl -power
.Ar pool
.Oo Ar device Oc Ns …
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Clears device errors in a pool.
If no arguments are specified, all device errors within the pool are cleared.
If one or more devices is specified, only those errors associated with the
specified device or devices are cleared.
.Pp
If the pool was suspended it will be brought back online provided the
devices can be accessed.
Pools with
.Sy multihost
enabled which have been suspended cannot be resumed.
While the pool was suspended, it may have been imported on
another host, and resuming I/O could result in pool damage.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl -power
Power on the devices's slot in the storage enclosure and wait for the device
to show up before attempting to clear errors.
This is done on all the devices specified.
Alternatively, you can set the
.Sy ZPOOL_AUTO_POWER_ON_SLOT
environment variable to always enable this behavior.
Note: This flag currently works on Linux only.
.El
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zdb 8 ,
.Xr zpool-reopen 8 ,
.Xr zpool-status 8
