.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CDDL-1.0
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://opensource.org/licenses/CDDL-1.0.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012, 2018 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Cyril Plisko. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Datto Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2018, 2021 George Melikov. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2017 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Open-E, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2025 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP.
.\"
.Dd May 1, 2026
.Dt ZPOOL-SCRUB 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zpool-scrub
.Nd begin or resume scrub of ZFS storage pools
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zpool
.Cm scrub
.Op Fl w
.Op Fl t
.Oo
.Fl C |
.Xo
.Op Fl S Ar date
.Op Fl E Ar date
.Xc
.Oc
.Fl a Ns | Ns Ar pool Ns …
.Nm zpool
.Cm scrub
.Fl e
.Op Fl w
.Fl a Ns | Ns Ar pool Ns …
.Nm zpool
.Cm scrub
.Fl p
.Fl a Ns | Ns Ar pool Ns …
.Nm zpool
.Cm scrub
.Fl s
.Fl a Ns | Ns Ar pool Ns …
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Begins a scrub or resumes a paused scrub.
A normal scrub examines all data in the specified pools and verifies each
block's checksum.
A thorough scrub additionally decrypts and/or decompresses blocks as they are
read.
For replicated
.Pq mirror, raidz, or draid
devices, ZFS automatically repairs any damage discovered during the scrub.
The
.Nm zpool Cm status
command reports the progress of the scrub and summarizes the results of the
scrub upon completion.
.Pp
Scrubbing and resilvering are very similar operations.
The difference is that resilvering only examines data that ZFS knows to be out
of date
.Po
for example, when attaching a new device to a mirror or replacing an existing
device
.Pc ,
whereas scrubbing examines all data to discover silent errors due to hardware
faults or disk failure.
.Pp
When scrubbing a pool with encrypted filesystems the keys do not need to be
loaded for ordinary checksum verification but are needed for thorough scrub
.Pq see Fl t
below.
.Pp
If the keys are not loaded and an unrepairable checksum error is
detected the file name cannot be included in the
.Nm zpool Cm status Fl v
verbose error report.
.Pp
Because scrubbing and resilvering are I/O-intensive operations, ZFS only allows
one at a time.
.Pp
A scrub is split into two parts: metadata scanning and block scrubbing.
The metadata scanning sorts blocks into large sequential ranges which can then
be read much more efficiently from disk when issuing the scrub I/O.
.Pp
If a scrub is paused, the
.Nm zpool Cm scrub
resumes it.
If a resilver is in progress, ZFS does not allow a scrub to be started until the
resilver completes.
.Pp
Note that, due to changes in pool data on a live system, it is possible for
scrubs and resilvers to progress beyond 100% completion.
During this period, no completion time estimate will be provided.
.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "-s"
.It Fl a , -all
Begin, pause
.Fl p ,
or stop
.Fl s ,
scrub on all pools.
Initiating scrubs on multiple pools can put considerable load and memory
pressure on the system, so this operation should be performed with caution.
.It Fl s
Stop scrubbing.
Cannot be combined with other options except
.Fl a .
.It Fl p
Pause scrubbing.
Cannot be combined with other options except
.Fl a .
Scrub pause state and progress are periodically synced to disk.
If the system is restarted or pool is exported during a paused scrub,
even after import, scrub will remain paused until it is resumed.
Once resumed the scrub will pick up from the place where it was last
checkpointed to disk.
To resume a paused scrub issue
.Nm zpool Cm scrub .
The scrub resumes in the same mode
.Pq normal or thorough
it had when it started.
To resume paused error scrub, issue
.Nm zpool Cm scrub Fl e .
.It Fl w
Wait until scrub has completed before returning.
.It Fl e
Only scrub files with known data errors as reported by
.Nm zpool Cm status Fl v .
The pool must have been scrubbed at least once with the
.Sy head_errlog
feature enabled to use this option.
Error scrubbing cannot be run simultaneously with other scrubbing or
resilvering, nor can it be run when a scrub is paused.
This option cannot be combined with
.Fl C ,
.Fl p ,
.Fl s ,
or
.Fl t .
.It Fl C
Continue scrub from last saved txg (see zpool
.Sy last_scrubbed_txg
property).
Cannot be combined with
.Fl S ,
.Fl E ,
.Fl e ,
.Fl p ,
or
.Fl s .
May be combined with thorough scrub
.Pq Fl t .
.It Fl t
Thorough scrub.
Will cause scrub to decrypt and decompress blocks it reads so that it will
catch the rare type of corruption where the checksum matches the data, but
decryption and/or decompression fails.
For encrypted datasets keys have to be loaded in order to perform
thorough scrub.
If keys are not loaded or unloaded during a thorough scrub the scrub will revert
to doing a normal scrub for the encrypted blocks with key(s) unloaded.
Cannot be combined with
.Fl e ,
.Fl p ,
or
.Fl s .
May be combined with
.Fl a ,
.Fl w ,
.Fl C
or
start/end date options
.Pq Fl S / Fl E .
.Pp
If a thorough scrub is paused, resuming with
.Nm zpool Cm scrub
.Pq with or without
.Fl t
continues as a thorough scrub.
Resuming a paused normal scrub with
.Fl t
will fail; use
.Nm zpool Cm scrub
without
.Fl t .
.It Fl S Ar date , Fl E Ar date
Allows specifying the date range for blocks created between these dates.
.Bl -bullet -compact -offset indent
.It
.Fl S
Defines a start date.
If not specified, scrubbing begins from the start of the pool's
existence.
.It
.Fl E
Defines an end date.
If not specified, scrubbing continues up to the most recent data.
.El
The provided date should be in the format:
.Dq YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM .
Where:
.Bl -bullet -compact -offset indent
.It
.Dq YYYY
is the year.
.It
.Dq MM
is the numeric representation of the month.
.It
.Dq DD
is the day of the month.
.It
.Dq HH
is the hour.
.It
.Dq MM
is the minutes.
.El
The hour and minutes parameters can be omitted.
The time should be provided in machine local time zone.
Specifying dates prior to enabling this feature will result in scrubbing
starting from the date the pool was created.
Large or discontinuous changes to the system clock (forward or backward)
can skew how the start and/or end dates map to pool transaction groups.
As a result, the scrub may not cover the intended dates.
.Pp
Cannot be combined with
.Fl C .
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Ss Example 1
Status of pool with ongoing scrub:
.sp
.Bd -literal -compact
.No # Nm zpool Cm status
  ...
  scan: scrub in progress since Sun Jul 25 16:07:49 2021
        403M / 405M scanned at 100M/s, 68.4M / 405M issued at 10.0M/s
        0B repaired, 16.91% done, 00:00:04 to go
  ...
.Ed
.Pp
Where metadata which references 403M of file data has been
scanned at 100M/s, and 68.4M of that file data has been
scrubbed sequentially at 10.0M/s.
.Sh PERIODIC SCRUB
On machines using systemd, scrub timers can be enabled on per-pool basis.
.Nm weekly
and
.Nm monthly
timer units are provided.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Xo
.Xc
.Nm systemctl
.Cm enable
.Cm zfs-scrub-\fIweekly\fB@\fIrpool\fB.timer
.Cm --now
.It Xo
.Xc
.Nm systemctl
.Cm enable
.Cm zfs-scrub-\fImonthly\fB@\fIotherpool\fB.timer
.Cm --now
.El
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr systemd.timer 5 ,
.Xr zpool-iostat 8 ,
.Xr zpool-resilver 8 ,
.Xr zpool-status 8
