.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012, 2018 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Cyril Plisko. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Datto Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 George Melikov. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2017 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Open-E, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd August 9, 2019
.Dt ZPOOL-CHECKPOINT 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm zpool-checkpoint
.Nd Checkpoints the current state of a ZFS storage pool
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zpool
.Cm checkpoint
.Op Fl d, -discard Oo Fl w, -wait Oc
.Ar pool
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Xo
.Nm zpool
.Cm checkpoint
.Op Fl d, -discard Oo Fl w, -wait Oc
.Ar pool
.Xc
Checkpoints the current state of
.Ar pool
, which can be later restored by
.Nm zpool Cm import --rewind-to-checkpoint .
The existence of a checkpoint in a pool prohibits the following
.Nm zpool
commands:
.Cm remove ,
.Cm attach ,
.Cm detach ,
.Cm split ,
and
.Cm reguid .
In addition, it may break reservation boundaries if the pool lacks free
space.
The
.Nm zpool Cm status
command indicates the existence of a checkpoint or the progress of discarding a
checkpoint from a pool.
The
.Nm zpool Cm list
command reports how much space the checkpoint takes from the pool.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d, -discard
Discards an existing checkpoint from
.Ar pool .
.It Fl w, -wait
Waits until the checkpoint has finished being discarded before returning.
.El
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zpool-import 8 ,
.Xr zpool-status 8 ,
.Xr zfs-snapshot 8
