.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012, 2018 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Cyril Plisko. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Datto Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 George Melikov. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2017 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Open-E, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd February 25, 2020
.Dt ZPOOL-WAIT 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm zpool Ns Pf - Cm wait
.Nd Wait for background activity to stop in a ZFS storage pool
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Cm wait
.Op Fl Hp
.Op Fl T Sy u Ns | Ns Sy d
.Op Fl t Ar activity Ns Oo , Ns Ar activity Ns Oc Ns ...
.Ar pool
.Op Ar interval
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm wait
.Op Fl Hp
.Op Fl T Sy u Ns | Ns Sy d
.Op Fl t Ar activity Ns Oo , Ns Ar activity Ns Oc Ns ...
.Ar pool
.Op Ar interval
.Xc
Waits until all background activity of the given types has ceased in the given
pool.
The activity could cease because it has completed, or because it has been
paused or canceled by a user, or because the pool has been exported or
destroyed.
If no activities are specified, the command waits until background activity of
every type listed below has ceased.
If there is no activity of the given types in progress, the command returns
immediately.
.Pp
These are the possible values for
.Ar activity ,
along with what each one waits for:
.Bd -literal
        discard       Checkpoint to be discarded
        free          'freeing' property to become 0
        initialize    All initializations to cease
        replace       All device replacements to cease
        remove        Device removal to cease
        resilver      Resilver to cease
        scrub         Scrub to cease
        trim          Manual trim to cease
.Ed
.Pp
If an
.Ar interval
is provided, the amount of work remaining, in bytes, for each activity is
printed every
.Ar interval
seconds.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl H
Scripted mode.
Do not display headers, and separate fields by a single tab instead of arbitrary
space.
.It Fl p
Display numbers in parsable (exact) values.
.It Fl T Sy u Ns | Ns Sy d
Display a time stamp.
Specify
.Sy u
for a printed representation of the internal representation of time.
See
.Xr time 2 .
Specify
.Sy d
for standard date format.
See
.Xr date 1 .
.El
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zpool-status 8 ,
.Xr zpool-checkpoint 8 ,
.Xr zpool-initialize 8 ,
.Xr zpool-replace 8 ,
.Xr zpool-remove 8 ,
.Xr zpool-resilver 8 ,
.Xr zpool-scrub 8 ,
.Xr zpool-trim 8
