.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012, 2018 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Cyril Plisko. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Datto Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 George Melikov. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2017 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Open-E, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd May 15, 2020
.Dt ZPOOL-REPLACE 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm zpool-replace
.Nd Replace one device with another in a ZFS storage pool
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zpool
.Cm replace
.Op Fl fsw
.Oo Fl o Ar property Ns = Ns Ar value Oc
.Ar pool Ar device Op Ar new_device
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Xo
.Nm zpool
.Cm replace
.Op Fl fsw
.Op Fl o Ar property Ns = Ns Ar value
.Ar pool Ar device Op Ar new_device
.Xc
Replaces
.Ar old_device
with
.Ar new_device .
This is equivalent to attaching
.Ar new_device ,
waiting for it to resilver, and then detaching
.Ar old_device .
Any in progress scrub will be cancelled.
.Pp
The size of
.Ar new_device
must be greater than or equal to the minimum size of all the devices in a mirror
or raidz configuration.
.Pp
.Ar new_device
is required if the pool is not redundant.
If
.Ar new_device
is not specified, it defaults to
.Ar old_device .
This form of replacement is useful after an existing disk has failed and has
been physically replaced.
In this case, the new disk may have the same
.Pa /dev
path as the old device, even though it is actually a different disk.
ZFS recognizes this.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl f
Forces use of
.Ar new_device ,
even if it appears to be in use.
Not all devices can be overridden in this manner.
.It Fl o Ar property Ns = Ns Ar value
Sets the given pool properties. See the
.Xr zpoolprops
manual page for a list of valid properties that can be set.
The only property supported at the moment is
.Sy ashift .
.It Fl s
The
.Ar new_device
is reconstructed sequentially to restore redundancy as quickly as possible.
Checksums are not verfied during sequential reconstruction so a scrub is
started when the resilver completes.
Sequential reconstruction is not supported for raidz configurations.
.It Fl w
Waits until the replacement has completed before returning.
.El
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zpool-detach 8 ,
.Xr zpool-initialize 8 ,
.Xr zpool-online 8 ,
.Xr zpool-resilver 8
