.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012, 2018 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Cyril Plisko. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Datto Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 George Melikov. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2017 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Open-E, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd August 9, 2019
.Dt ZPOOL-GET 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm zpool Ns Pf - Cm get
.Nd Retrieves properties for the specified ZFS storage pool(s)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Cm get
.Op Fl Hp
.Op Fl o Ar field Ns Oo , Ns Ar field Oc Ns ...
.Sy all Ns | Ns Ar property Ns Oo , Ns Ar property Oc Ns ...
.Oo Ar pool Oc Ns ...
.Nm
.Cm set
.Ar property Ns = Ns Ar value
.Ar pool
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm get
.Op Fl Hp
.Op Fl o Ar field Ns Oo , Ns Ar field Oc Ns ...
.Sy all Ns | Ns Ar property Ns Oo , Ns Ar property Oc Ns ...
.Oo Ar pool Oc Ns ...
.Xc
Retrieves the given list of properties
.Po
or all properties if
.Sy all
is used
.Pc
for the specified storage pool(s).
These properties are displayed with the following fields:
.Bd -literal
        name          Name of storage pool
        property      Property name
        value         Property value
        source        Property source, either 'default' or 'local'.
.Ed
.Pp
See the
.Xr zpoolprops
manual page for more information on the available pool properties.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl H
Scripted mode.
Do not display headers, and separate fields by a single tab instead of arbitrary
space.
.It Fl o Ar field
A comma-separated list of columns to display.
.Sy name Ns \&, Ns Sy property Ns \&, Ns Sy value Ns \&, Ns Sy source
is the default value.
.It Fl p
Display numbers in parsable (exact) values.
.El
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm set
.Ar property Ns = Ns Ar value
.Ar pool
.Xc
Sets the given property on the specified pool.
See the
.Xr zpoolprops
manual page for more information on what properties can be set and acceptable
values.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zpoolprops 8 ,
.Xr zpool-list 8 ,
.Xr zpool-features 5
