.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012, 2018 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Cyril Plisko. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Datto Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 George Melikov. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2017 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Open-E, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd August 9, 2019
.Dt ZPOOL-SPLIT 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm zpool Ns Pf - Cm split
.Nd Split devices off a ZFS storage pool creating a new pool
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Cm split
.Op Fl gLlnP
.Oo Fl o Ar property Ns = Ns Ar value Oc Ns ...
.Op Fl R Ar root
.Ar pool newpool
.Oo Ar device Oc Ns ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm split
.Op Fl gLlnP
.Oo Fl o Ar property Ns = Ns Ar value Oc Ns ...
.Op Fl R Ar root
.Ar pool newpool
.Op Ar device ...
.Xc
Splits devices off
.Ar pool
creating
.Ar newpool .
All vdevs in
.Ar pool
must be mirrors and the pool must not be in the process of resilvering.
At the time of the split,
.Ar newpool
will be a replica of
.Ar pool .
By default, the
last device in each mirror is split from
.Ar pool
to create
.Ar newpool .
.Pp
The optional device specification causes the specified device(s) to be
included in the new
.Ar pool
and, should any devices remain unspecified,
the last device in each mirror is used as would be by default.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl g
Display vdev GUIDs instead of the normal device names. These GUIDs
can be used in place of device names for the zpool
detach/offline/remove/replace commands.
.It Fl L
Display real paths for vdevs resolving all symbolic links. This can
be used to look up the current block device name regardless of the
.Pa /dev/disk/
path used to open it.
.It Fl l
Indicates that this command will request encryption keys for all encrypted
datasets it attempts to mount as it is bringing the new pool online. Note that
if any datasets have a
.Sy keylocation
of
.Sy prompt
this command will block waiting for the keys to be entered. Without this flag
encrypted datasets will be left unavailable until the keys are loaded.
.It Fl n
Do dry run, do not actually perform the split.
Print out the expected configuration of
.Ar newpool .
.It Fl P
Display full paths for vdevs instead of only the last component of
the path. This can be used in conjunction with the
.Fl L
flag.
.It Fl o Ar property Ns = Ns Ar value
Sets the specified property for
.Ar newpool .
See the
.Xr zpoolprops
manual page for more information on the available pool properties.
.It Fl R Ar root
Set
.Sy altroot
for
.Ar newpool
to
.Ar root
and automatically import it.
.El
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zpool-import 8 ,
.Xr zpool-list 8 ,
.Xr zpool-remove 8
