.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CDDL-1.0
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2024, Klara Inc.
.\"
.Dd June 17, 2024
.Dt ZPOOL-DDTPRUNE 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zpool-ddtprune
.Nd Prunes the oldest entries from the single reference dedup table(s)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zpool
.Cm ddtprune
.Fl d Ar days | Fl p Ar percentage
.Ar pool
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This command prunes older unique entries from the dedup table.
As a complement to the dedup quota feature,
.Sy ddtprune
allows removal of older non-duplicate entries to make room for
newer duplicate entries.
.Pp
The amount to prune can be based on a target percentage of the unique entries
or based on the age (i.e., every unique entry older than N days).
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zdb 8 ,
.Xr zpool-status 8
