.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://opensource.org/licenses/CDDL-1.0.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012, 2018 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Cyril Plisko. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Datto Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 George Melikov. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2017 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Open-E, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd March 16, 2022
.Dt ZPOOL-LIST 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zpool-list
.Nd list information about ZFS storage pools
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zpool
.Cm list
.Op Fl HgLpPv
.Op Fl o Ar property Ns Oo , Ns Ar property Oc Ns …
.Op Fl T Sy u Ns | Ns Sy d
.Oo Ar pool Oc Ns …
.Op Ar interval Op Ar count
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Lists the given pools along with a health status and space usage.
If no
.Ar pool Ns s
are specified, all pools in the system are listed.
When given an
.Ar interval ,
the information is printed every
.Ar interval
seconds until killed.
If
.Ar count
is specified, the command exits after
.Ar count
reports are printed.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl g
Display vdev GUIDs instead of the normal device names.
These GUIDs can be used in place of device names for the zpool
detach/offline/remove/replace commands.
.It Fl H
Scripted mode.
Do not display headers, and separate fields by a single tab instead of arbitrary
space.
.It Fl o Ar property
Comma-separated list of properties to display.
See the
.Xr zpoolprops 7
manual page for a list of valid properties.
The default list is
.Sy name , size , allocated , free , checkpoint, expandsize , fragmentation ,
.Sy capacity , dedupratio , health , altroot .
.It Fl L
Display real paths for vdevs resolving all symbolic links.
This can be used to look up the current block device name regardless of the
.Pa /dev/disk
path used to open it.
.It Fl p
Display numbers in parsable
.Pq exact
values.
.It Fl P
Display full paths for vdevs instead of only the last component of
the path.
This can be used in conjunction with the
.Fl L
flag.
.It Fl T Sy u Ns | Ns Sy d
Display a time stamp.
Specify
.Sy u
for a printed representation of the internal representation of time.
See
.Xr time 2 .
Specify
.Sy d
for standard date format.
See
.Xr date 1 .
.It Fl v
Verbose statistics.
Reports usage statistics for individual vdevs within the pool, in addition to
the pool-wide statistics.
.El
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.\" These are, respectively, examples 6, 15 from zpool.8
.\" Make sure to update them bidirectionally
.Ss Example 1 : No Listing Available ZFS Storage Pools
The following command lists all available pools on the system.
In this case, the pool
.Ar zion
is faulted due to a missing device.
The results from this command are similar to the following:
.Bd -literal -compact -offset Ds
.No # Nm zpool Cm list
NAME    SIZE  ALLOC   FREE  EXPANDSZ   FRAG    CAP  DEDUP  HEALTH  ALTROOT
rpool  19.9G  8.43G  11.4G         -    33%    42%  1.00x  ONLINE  -
tank   61.5G  20.0G  41.5G         -    48%    32%  1.00x  ONLINE  -
zion       -      -      -         -      -      -      -  FAULTED -
.Ed
.
.Ss Example 2 : No Displaying expanded space on a device
The following command displays the detailed information for the pool
.Ar data .
This pool is comprised of a single raidz vdev where one of its devices
increased its capacity by 10 GiB.
In this example, the pool will not be able to utilize this extra capacity until
all the devices under the raidz vdev have been expanded.
.Bd -literal -compact -offset Ds
.No # Nm zpool Cm list Fl v Ar data
NAME         SIZE  ALLOC   FREE  EXPANDSZ   FRAG    CAP  DEDUP  HEALTH  ALTROOT
data        23.9G  14.6G  9.30G         -    48%    61%  1.00x  ONLINE  -
  raidz1    23.9G  14.6G  9.30G         -    48%
    sda         -      -      -         -      -
    sdb         -      -      -       10G      -
    sdc         -      -      -         -      -
.Ed
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zpool-import 8 ,
.Xr zpool-status 8
