.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CDDL-1.0
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://opensource.org/licenses/CDDL-1.0.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2026 Klara, Inc.
.\"
.Dd April 2, 2026
.Dt ZPOOL-CONTRACT 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zpool-contract
.Nd contract an AnyRAID vdev in a ZFS storage pool
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zpool
.Cm contract
.Ar pool Ar anyraid-vdev Ar leaf-vdev
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Starts a contraction operation on an AnyRAID vdev.
If a relocate operation is already in progress, this command will fail.
This operation will proceed in the background, moving tiles from the specified
leaf vdev to other vdevs in the anyraid vdev.
When the relocate finishes, the pool will be scrubbed to verify the integrity
of all the moved data.
Once that process is complete, the specified leaf vdev will be removed from the
pool, and the available space will be reduced.
Note that if for whatever reason valid homes cannot be found for all of the
tiles that need to be moved, the command will fail immediately.
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zpoolconcepts 7 ,
.Xr zpool-status 8
