.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CDDL-1.0
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://opensource.org/licenses/CDDL-1.0.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012, 2018 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Cyril Plisko. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Datto Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 George Melikov. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2017 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Open-E, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd August 9, 2019
.Dt ZPOOL-OFFLINE 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zpool-offline
.Nd take physical devices offline in ZFS storage pool
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zpool
.Cm offline
.Op Fl Sy -power Ns | Ns Op Fl Sy ft
.Ar pool
.Ar device Ns …
.Nm zpool
.Cm online
.Op Fl Sy -power
.Op Fl Sy e
.Ar pool
.Ar device Ns …
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Xo
.Nm zpool
.Cm offline
.Op Fl Sy -power Ns | Ns Op Fl Sy ft
.Ar pool
.Ar device Ns …
.Xc
Takes the specified physical device offline.
While the
.Ar device
is offline, no attempt is made to read or write to the device.
This command is not applicable to spares.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl -power
Power off the device's slot in the storage enclosure.
This flag currently works on Linux only
.It Fl f
Force fault.
Instead of offlining the disk, put it into a faulted state.
The fault will persist across imports unless the
.Fl t
flag was specified.
.It Fl t
Temporary.
Upon reboot, the specified physical device reverts to its previous state.
.El
.It Xo
.Nm zpool
.Cm online
.Op Fl -power
.Op Fl e
.Ar pool
.Ar device Ns …
.Xc
Brings the specified physical device online.
This command is not applicable to spares.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl -power
Power on the device's slot in the storage enclosure and wait for the device
to show up before attempting to online it.
Alternatively, you can set the
.Sy ZPOOL_AUTO_POWER_ON_SLOT
environment variable to always enable this behavior.
This flag currently works on Linux only
.It Fl e
Expand the device to use all available space.
If the device is part of a mirror or raidz then all devices must be expanded
before the new space will become available to the pool.
.El
.El
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zpool-detach 8 ,
.Xr zpool-remove 8 ,
.Xr zpool-reopen 8 ,
.Xr zpool-resilver 8
