.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CDDL-1.0
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://opensource.org/licenses/CDDL-1.0.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012, 2018 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Cyril Plisko. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Datto Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 George Melikov. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2017 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Open-E, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd June 2, 2021
.Dt ZPOOL-REOPEN 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zpool-reopen
.Nd reopen vdevs associated with ZFS storage pools
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zpool
.Cm reopen
.Op Fl n
.Oo Ar pool Oc Ns …
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Reopen all vdevs associated with the specified pools,
or all pools if none specified.
.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "-n"
.It Fl n
Do not restart an in-progress scrub operation.
This is not recommended and can
result in partially resilvered devices unless a second scrub is performed.
.El
