.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CDDL-1.0
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://opensource.org/licenses/CDDL-1.0.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012, 2018 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Cyril Plisko. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Datto Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 George Melikov. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2017 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Open-E, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd May 12, 2025
.Dt ZPOOL-DESTROY 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zpool-destroy
.Nd destroy ZFS storage pool
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zpool
.Cm destroy
.Op Fl f
.Op Fl F
.Ar pool
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Destroys the given pool, freeing up any devices for other use.
This command tries to unmount any active datasets before destroying the pool.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl f
Forcefully unmount all active datasets.
.It Fl F
Implies and extends -f flag by forcibly destroying a suspended pool.
It will cause data not already synced to the underlying storage to be lost.
.Pp
It must be used only as the last resort, and it is critical to avoid
other operations over any pool in parallel such as create, import, export,
destroy, etc.
.Pp
Once a pool is requested for forced destruction there is no way back to the
normal state as some dirty data may have already been dropped.
The destruction process must be finished, if there are obstacles such as
operating system inability to unmount the related file systems, then destroy
command with this hardforce flag must be repeated after unmounting issue
resolution.
.El
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.\" These are, respectively, examples 7 from zpool.8
.\" Make sure to update them bidirectionally
.Ss Example 1 : No Destroying a ZFS Storage Pool
The following command destroys the pool
.Ar tank
and any datasets contained within:
.Dl # Nm zpool Cm destroy Fl f Ar tank
