.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012, 2018 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Cyril Plisko. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Datto Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 George Melikov. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2017 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Open-E, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd May 27, 2021
.Dt ZPOOL-TRIM 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zpool-trim
.Nd initiate TRIM of free space in ZFS storage pool
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zpool
.Cm trim
.Op Fl dw
.Op Fl r Ar rate
.Op Fl c Ns | Ns Fl s
.Ar pool
.Oo Ar device Ns Oc Ns …
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Initiates an immediate on-demand TRIM operation for all of the free space in
a pool.
This operation informs the underlying storage devices of all blocks
in the pool which are no longer allocated and allows thinly provisioned
devices to reclaim the space.
.Pp
A manual on-demand TRIM operation can be initiated irrespective of the
.Sy autotrim
pool property setting.
See the documentation for the
.Sy autotrim
property above for the types of vdev devices which can be trimmed.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d , -secure
Causes a secure TRIM to be initiated.
When performing a secure TRIM, the
device guarantees that data stored on the trimmed blocks has been erased.
This requires support from the device and is not supported by all SSDs.
.It Fl r , -rate Ar rate
Controls the rate at which the TRIM operation progresses.
Without this
option TRIM is executed as quickly as possible.
The rate, expressed in bytes
per second, is applied on a per-vdev basis and may be set differently for
each leaf vdev.
.It Fl c , -cancel
Cancel trimming on the specified devices, or all eligible devices if none
are specified.
If one or more target devices are invalid or are not currently being
trimmed, the command will fail and no cancellation will occur on any device.
.It Fl s , -suspend
Suspend trimming on the specified devices, or all eligible devices if none
are specified.
If one or more target devices are invalid or are not currently being
trimmed, the command will fail and no suspension will occur on any device.
Trimming can then be resumed by running
.Nm zpool Cm trim
with no flags on the relevant target devices.
.It Fl w , -wait
Wait until the devices are done being trimmed before returning.
.El
.Sh PERIODIC TRIM
On machines using systemd, trim timers can be enabled on a per-pool basis.
.Nm weekly
and
.Nm monthly
timer units are provided.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Xo
.Xc
.Nm systemctl
.Cm enable
.Cm zfs-trim-\fIweekly\fB@\fIrpool\fB.timer
.Cm --now
.It Xo
.Xc
.Nm systemctl
.Cm enable
.Cm zfs-trim-\fImonthly\fB@\fIotherpool\fB.timer
.Cm --now
.El
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr systemd.timer 5 ,
.Xr zpoolprops 7 ,
.Xr zpool-initialize 8 ,
.Xr zpool-wait 8
