.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012, 2018 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Cyril Plisko. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Datto Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 George Melikov. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2017 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Open-E, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd February 16, 2020
.Dt ZPOOL-EXPORT 8
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zpool-export
.Nd export ZFS storage pools
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm zpool
.Cm export
.Op Fl f
.Fl a Ns | Ns Ar pool Ns …
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Exports the given pools from the system.
All devices are marked as exported, but are still considered in use by other
subsystems.
The devices can be moved between systems
.Pq even those of different endianness
and imported as long as a sufficient number of devices are present.
.Pp
Before exporting the pool, all datasets within the pool are unmounted.
A pool can not be exported if it has a shared spare that is currently being
used.
.Pp
For pools to be portable, you must give the
.Nm zpool
command whole disks, not just partitions, so that ZFS can label the disks with
portable EFI labels.
Otherwise, disk drivers on platforms of different endianness will not recognize
the disks.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a
Exports all pools imported on the system.
.It Fl f
Forcefully unmount all datasets, and allow export of pools with active shared spares.
.Pp
This command will forcefully export the pool even if it has a shared spare that
is currently being used.
This may lead to potential data corruption.
.El
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zpool-import 8
