.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://opensource.org/licenses/CDDL-1.0.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2021 Klara, Inc.
.\"
.Dd October 30, 2022
.Dt VDEVPROPS 7
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm vdevprops
.Nd native and user-defined properties of ZFS vdevs
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Properties are divided into two types, native properties and user-defined
.Pq or Qq user
properties.
Native properties either export internal statistics or control ZFS behavior.
In addition, native properties are either editable or read-only.
User properties have no effect on ZFS behavior, but you can use them to annotate
vdevs in a way that is meaningful in your environment.
For more information about user properties, see the
.Sx User Properties
section, below.
.
.Ss Native Properties
Every vdev has a set of properties that export statistics about the vdev
as well as control various behaviors.
Properties are NOT inherited from top-level vdevs.
.Pp
The values of numeric properties can be specified using human-readable suffixes
.Po for example,
.Sy k , KB , M , Gb ,
and so forth, up to
.Sy Z
for zettabyte
.Pc .
The following are all valid
.Pq and equal
specifications:
.Li 1536M , 1.5g , 1.50GB .
.Pp
The values of non-numeric properties are case sensitive and must be lowercase.
.Pp
The following native properties consist of read-only statistics about the
vdev.
These properties can not be changed.
.Bl -tag -width "fragmentation"
.It Sy capacity
Percentage of vdev space used
.It Sy state
state of this vdev such as online, faulted, or offline
.It Sy guid
globally unique id of this vdev
.It Sy asize
The allocable size of this vdev
.It Sy psize
The physical size of this vdev
.It Sy ashift
The physical sector size of this vdev expressed as the power of two
.It Sy size
The total size of this vdev
.It Sy free
The amount of remaining free space on this vdev
.It Sy allocated
The amount of allocated space on this vdev
.It Sy expandsize
How much this vdev can expand by
.It Sy fragmentation
Percent of fragmentation in this vdev
.It Sy parity
The level of parity for this vdev
.It Sy devid
The device id for this vdev
.It Sy physpath
The physical path to the device
.It Sy encpath
The enclosure path to the device
.It Sy fru
Field Replacable Unit, usually a model number
.It Sy parent
Parent of this vdev
.It Sy children
Comma separated list of children of this vdev
.It Sy numchildren
The number of children belonging to this vdev
.It Sy read_errors , write_errors , checksum_errors , initialize_errors
The number of errors of each type encountered by this vdev
.It Sy null_ops , read_ops , write_ops , free_ops , claim_ops , trim_ops
The number of I/O operations of each type performed by this vdev
.It Xo
.Sy null_bytes , read_bytes , write_bytes , free_bytes , claim_bytes ,
.Sy trim_bytes
.Xc
The cumulative size of all operations of each type performed by this vdev
.It Sy removing
If this device is currently being removed from the pool
.El
.Pp
The following native properties can be used to change the behavior of a ZFS
dataset.
.Bl -tag -width "allocating"
.It Sy comment
A text comment up to 8192 characters long
.It Sy bootsize
The amount of space to reserve for the EFI system partition
.It Sy failfast
If this device should propage BIO errors back to ZFS, used to disable
failfast.
.It Sy path
The path to the device for this vdev
.It Sy allocating
If this device should perform new allocations, used to disable a device
when it is scheduled for later removal.
See
.Xr zpool-remove 8 .
.El
.Ss User Properties
In addition to the standard native properties, ZFS supports arbitrary user
properties.
User properties have no effect on ZFS behavior, but applications or
administrators can use them to annotate vdevs.
.Pp
User property names must contain a colon
.Pq Qq Sy \&:
character to distinguish them from native properties.
They may contain lowercase letters, numbers, and the following punctuation
characters: colon
.Pq Qq Sy \&: ,
dash
.Pq Qq Sy - ,
period
.Pq Qq Sy \&. ,
and underscore
.Pq Qq Sy _ .
The expected convention is that the property name is divided into two portions
such as
.Ar module : Ns Ar property ,
but this namespace is not enforced by ZFS.
User property names can be at most 256 characters, and cannot begin with a dash
.Pq Qq Sy - .
.Pp
When making programmatic use of user properties, it is strongly suggested to use
a reversed DNS domain name for the
.Ar module
component of property names to reduce the chance that two
independently-developed packages use the same property name for different
purposes.
.Pp
The values of user properties are arbitrary strings and
are never validated.
Use the
.Nm zpool Cm set
command with a blank value to clear a user property.
Property values are limited to 8192 bytes.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zpoolprops 7 ,
.Xr zpool-set 8
