.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CDDL-1.0
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://opensource.org/licenses/CDDL-1.0.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2011 Joshua M. Clulow <josh@sysmgr.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, 2019 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2013 by Saso Kiselkov. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Joyent, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 by Adam Stevko. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Integros [integros.com]
.\" Copyright 2019 Richard Laager. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2018 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\" Copyright 2019 Joyent, Inc.
.\" Copyright 2023 Klara, Inc.
.\"
.Dd October 6, 2023
.Dt ZFSCONCEPTS 7
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zfsconcepts
.Nd overview of ZFS concepts
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Ss ZFS File System Hierarchy
A ZFS storage pool is a logical collection of devices that provide space for
datasets.
A storage pool is also the root of the ZFS file system hierarchy.
.Pp
The root of the pool can be accessed as a file system, such as mounting and
unmounting, taking snapshots, and setting properties.
The physical storage characteristics, however, are managed by the
.Xr zpool 8
command.
.Pp
See
.Xr zpool 8
for more information on creating and administering pools.
.Ss Snapshots
A snapshot is a read-only copy of a file system or volume.
Snapshots can be created extremely quickly, and initially consume no additional
space within the pool.
As data within the active dataset changes, the snapshot consumes more data than
would otherwise be shared with the active dataset.
.Pp
Snapshots can have arbitrary names.
Snapshots of volumes can be cloned or rolled back, visibility is determined
by the
.Sy snapdev
property of the parent volume.
.Pp
File system snapshots can be accessed under the
.Pa .zfs/snapshot
directory in the root of the file system.
Snapshots are automatically mounted on demand and may be unmounted at regular
intervals.
The availability and visibility of the
.Pa .zfs
directory can be controlled by the
.Sy snapdir
property.
.Ss Bookmarks
A bookmark is like a snapshot, a read-only copy of a file system or volume.
Bookmarks can be created extremely quickly, compared to snapshots, and they
consume no additional space within the pool.
Bookmarks can also have arbitrary names, much like snapshots.
.Pp
Unlike snapshots, bookmarks can not be accessed through the filesystem in any
way.
From a storage standpoint a bookmark just provides a way to reference
when a snapshot was created as a distinct object.
Bookmarks are initially tied to a snapshot, not the filesystem or volume,
and they will survive if the snapshot itself is destroyed.
Since they are very light weight there's little incentive to destroy them.
.Ss Clones
A clone is a writable volume or file system whose initial contents are the same
as another dataset.
As with snapshots, creating a clone is nearly instantaneous, and initially
consumes no additional space.
.Pp
Clones can only be created from a snapshot.
When a snapshot is cloned, it creates an implicit dependency between the parent
and child.
Even though the clone is created somewhere else in the dataset hierarchy, the
original snapshot cannot be destroyed as long as a clone exists.
The
.Sy origin
property exposes this dependency, and the
.Cm destroy
command lists any such dependencies, if they exist.
.Pp
The clone parent-child dependency relationship can be reversed by using the
.Cm promote
subcommand.
This causes the
.Qq origin
file system to become a clone of the specified file system, which makes it
possible to destroy the file system that the clone was created from.
.Ss "Mount Points"
Creating a ZFS file system is a simple operation, so the number of file systems
per system is likely to be numerous.
To cope with this, ZFS automatically manages mounting and unmounting file
systems without the need to edit the
.Pa /etc/fstab
file.
All automatically managed file systems are mounted by ZFS at boot time.
.Pp
By default, file systems are mounted under
.Pa /path ,
where
.Ar path
is the name of the file system in the ZFS namespace.
Directories are created and destroyed as needed.
.Pp
A file system can also have a mount point set in the
.Sy mountpoint
property.
This directory is created as needed, and ZFS automatically mounts the file
system when the
.Nm zfs Cm mount Fl a
command is invoked
.Po without editing
.Pa /etc/fstab
.Pc .
The
.Sy mountpoint
property can be inherited, so if
.Em pool/home
has a mount point of
.Pa /export/stuff ,
then
.Em pool/home/user
automatically inherits a mount point of
.Pa /export/stuff/user .
.Pp
A file system
.Sy mountpoint
property of
.Sy none
prevents the file system from being mounted.
.Pp
If needed, ZFS file systems can also be managed with traditional tools
.Po
.Nm mount ,
.Nm umount ,
.Pa /etc/fstab
.Pc .
If a file system's mount point is set to
.Sy legacy ,
ZFS makes no attempt to manage the file system, and the administrator is
responsible for mounting and unmounting the file system.
Because pools must
be imported before a legacy mount can succeed, administrators should ensure
that legacy mounts are only attempted after the zpool import process
finishes at boot time.
For example, on machines using systemd, the mount option
.Pp
.Nm x-systemd.requires=zfs-import.target
.Pp
will ensure that the zfs-import completes before systemd attempts mounting
the filesystem.
See
.Xr systemd.mount 5
for details.
.Ss Deduplication
Deduplication is the process for removing redundant data at the block level,
reducing the total amount of data stored.
If a file system has the
.Sy dedup
property enabled, duplicate data blocks are removed synchronously.
The result
is that only unique data is stored and common components are shared among files.
.Pp
Deduplicating data is a very resource-intensive operation.
It is generally recommended that you have at least 1.25 GiB of RAM
per 1 TiB of storage when you enable deduplication.
Calculating the exact requirement depends heavily
on the type of data stored in the pool.
.Pp
Enabling deduplication on an improperly-designed system can result in
performance issues (slow I/O and administrative operations).
It can potentially lead to problems importing a pool due to memory exhaustion.
Deduplication can consume significant processing power (CPU) and memory as well
as generate additional disk I/O.
.Pp
Before creating a pool with deduplication enabled, ensure that you have planned
your hardware requirements appropriately and implemented appropriate recovery
practices, such as regular backups.
Consider using the
.Sy compression
property as a less resource-intensive alternative.
.Ss Block cloning
Block cloning is a facility that allows a file (or parts of a file) to be
.Qq cloned ,
that is, a shallow copy made where the existing data blocks are referenced
rather than copied.
Later modifications to the data will cause a copy of the data block to be taken
and that copy modified.
This facility is used to implement
.Qq reflinks
or
.Qq file-level copy-on-write .
.Pp
Cloned blocks are tracked in a special on-disk structure called the Block
Reference Table
.Po BRT
.Pc .
Unlike deduplication, this table has minimal overhead, so can be enabled at all
times.
.Pp
Also unlike deduplication, cloning must be requested by a user program.
Many common file copying programs, including newer versions of
.Nm /bin/cp ,
will try to create clones automatically.
Look for
.Qq clone ,
.Qq dedupe
or
.Qq reflink
in the documentation for more information.
.Pp
There are some limitations to block cloning.
Only whole blocks can be cloned, and blocks can not be cloned if they are not
yet written to disk, or if they are encrypted, or the source and destination
.Sy recordsize
properties differ.
The OS may add additional restrictions;
for example, most versions of Linux will not allow clones across datasets.
