
OpenZFS on OS X consists of software that is covered under the
Common Development and Distribution License 1.0 and the Apple
Public Source License 2.0.

Each file at https://github.com/openzfsonosx records which license it is
released under.

Much of OpenZFS on OS X is a port of ZFS on Linux.

--------------------------------------------------------------------
ZFS on Linux COPYRIGHT

The majority of the code in the ZFS on Linux port comes from
OpenSolaris which has been released under the terms of the CDDL
open source license.  This includes the core ZFS code, libavl,
libnvpair, libefi, libunicode, and libutil.  The original OpenSolaris
source can be downloaded from:

http://dlc.sun.com/osol/on/downloads/b121/on-src.tar.bz2

Files which do not originate from OpenSolaris are noted in the file
header and attributed properly.  These exceptions include, but are not
limited to, the vdev_disk.c and zvol.c implementation which are
licensed under the CDDL.

The zpios test code is originally derived from the Lustre pios test
code which is licensed under the GPLv2.  As such the heavily modified
zpios kernel test code also remains licensed under the GPLv2.

The latest stable and development versions of this port can be
downloaded from the official ZFS on Linux site located at:

http://zfsonlinux.org/

This ZFS on Linux port was produced at the Lawrence Livermore National
Laboratory (LLNL) under Contract No. DE-AC52-07NA27344 (Contract 44)
between the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) and Lawrence Livermore
National Security, LLC (LLNS) for the operation of LLNL.  It has been
approved for release under LLNL-CODE-403049.

Unless otherwise noted, all files in this distribution are released
under the Common Development and Distribution License (CDDL).
Exceptions are noted within the associated source files.

--------------------------------------------------------------------
ZFS on Linux Disclaimer

This work was produced at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
(LLNL) under Contract No. DE-AC52-07NA27344 (Contract 44) between
the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) and Lawrence Livermore National
Security, LLC (LLNS) for the operation of LLNL.

This work was prepared as an account of work sponsored by an agency of
the United States Government.  Neither the United States Government nor
Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC nor any of their employees,
makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any liability or
responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any
information, apparatus, product, or process disclosed, or represents
that its use would not infringe privately-owned rights.

Reference herein to any specific commercial products, process, or
services by trade name, trademark, manufacturer or otherwise does
not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation,
or favoring by the United States Government or Lawrence Livermore
National Security, LLC.  The views and opinions of authors expressed
herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States
Government or Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC, and shall
not be used for advertising or product endorsement purposes.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution, and
modification are specified in the file OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.txt

--------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents of OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE:

Unless otherwise noted, all files in this distribution are released
under the Common Development and Distribution License (CDDL).
Exceptions are noted within the associated source files.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

COMMON DEVELOPMENT AND DISTRIBUTION LICENSE Version 1.0

1. Definitions.

    1.1. "Contributor" means each individual or entity that creates
         or contributes to the creation of Modifications.

    1.2. "Contributor Version" means the combination of the Original
         Software, prior Modifications used by a Contributor (if any),
         and the Modifications made by that particular Contributor.

    1.3. "Covered Software" means (a) the Original Software, or (b)
         Modifications, or (c) the combination of files containing
         Original Software with files containing Modifications, in
         each case including portions thereof.

    1.4. "Executable" means the Covered Software in any form other
         than Source Code.

    1.5. "Initial Developer" means the individual or entity that first
         makes Original Software available under this License.

    1.6. "Larger Work" means a work which combines Covered Software or
         portions thereof with code not governed by the terms of this
         License.

    1.7. "License" means this document.

    1.8. "Licensable" means having the right to grant, to the maximum
         extent possible, whether at the time of the initial grant or
         subsequently acquired, any and all of the rights conveyed
         herein.

    1.9. "Modifications" means the Source Code and Executable form of
         any of the following:

        A. Any file that results from an addition to, deletion from or
           modification of the contents of a file containing Original
           Software or previous Modifications;

        B. Any new file that contains any part of the Original
           Software or previous Modifications; or

        C. Any new file that is contributed or otherwise made
           available under the terms of this License.

    1.10. "Original Software" means the Source Code and Executable
          form of computer software code that is originally released
          under this License.

    1.11. "Patent Claims" means any patent claim(s), now owned or
          hereafter acquired, including without limitation, method,
          process, and apparatus claims, in any patent Licensable by
          grantor.

    1.12. "Source Code" means (a) the common form of computer software
          code in which modifications are made and (b) associated
          documentation included in or with such code.

    1.13. "You" (or "Your") means an individual or a legal entity
          exercising rights under, and complying with all of the terms
          of, this License.  For legal entities, "You" includes any
          entity which controls, is controlled by, or is under common
          control with You.  For purposes of this definition,
          "control" means (a) the power, direct or indirect, to cause
          the direction or management of such entity, whether by
          contract or otherwise, or (b) ownership of more than fifty
          percent (50%) of the outstanding shares or beneficial
          ownership of such entity.

2. License Grants.

    2.1. The Initial Developer Grant.

    Conditioned upon Your compliance with Section 3.1 below and
    subject to third party intellectual property claims, the Initial
    Developer hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free,
    non-exclusive license:

        (a) under intellectual property rights (other than patent or
            trademark) Licensable by Initial Developer, to use,
            reproduce, modify, display, perform, sublicense and
            distribute the Original Software (or portions thereof),
            with or without Modifications, and/or as part of a Larger
            Work; and

        (b) under Patent Claims infringed by the making, using or
            selling of Original Software, to make, have made, use,
            practice, sell, and offer for sale, and/or otherwise
            dispose of the Original Software (or portions thereof).

        (c) The licenses granted in Sections 2.1(a) and (b) are
            effective on the date Initial Developer first distributes
            or otherwise makes the Original Software available to a
            third party under the terms of this License.

        (d) Notwithstanding Section 2.1(b) above, no patent license is
            granted: (1) for code that You delete from the Original
            Software, or (2) for infringements caused by: (i) the
            modification of the Original Software, or (ii) the
            combination of the Original Software with other software
            or devices.

    2.2. Contributor Grant.

    Conditioned upon Your compliance with Section 3.1 below and
    subject to third party intellectual property claims, each
    Contributor hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free,
    non-exclusive license:

        (a) under intellectual property rights (other than patent or
            trademark) Licensable by Contributor to use, reproduce,
            modify, display, perform, sublicense and distribute the
            Modifications created by such Contributor (or portions
            thereof), either on an unmodified basis, with other
            Modifications, as Covered Software and/or as part of a
            Larger Work; and

        (b) under Patent Claims infringed by the making, using, or
            selling of Modifications made by that Contributor either
            alone and/or in combination with its Contributor Version
            (or portions of such combination), to make, use, sell,
            offer for sale, have made, and/or otherwise dispose of:
            (1) Modifications made by that Contributor (or portions
            thereof); and (2) the combination of Modifications made by
            that Contributor with its Contributor Version (or portions
            of such combination).

        (c) The licenses granted in Sections 2.2(a) and 2.2(b) are
            effective on the date Contributor first distributes or
            otherwise makes the Modifications available to a third
            party.

        (d) Notwithstanding Section 2.2(b) above, no patent license is
            granted: (1) for any code that Contributor has deleted
            from the Contributor Version; (2) for infringements caused
            by: (i) third party modifications of Contributor Version,
            or (ii) the combination of Modifications made by that
            Contributor with other software (except as part of the
            Contributor Version) or other devices; or (3) under Patent
            Claims infringed by Covered Software in the absence of
            Modifications made by that Contributor.

3. Distribution Obligations.

    3.1. Availability of Source Code.

    Any Covered Software that You distribute or otherwise make
    available in Executable form must also be made available in Source
    Code form and that Source Code form must be distributed only under
    the terms of this License.  You must include a copy of this
    License with every copy of the Source Code form of the Covered
    Software You distribute or otherwise make available.  You must
    inform recipients of any such Covered Software in Executable form
    as to how they can obtain such Covered Software in Source Code
    form in a reasonable manner on or through a medium customarily
    used for software exchange.

    3.2. Modifications.

    The Modifications that You create or to which You contribute are
    governed by the terms of this License.  You represent that You
    believe Your Modifications are Your original creation(s) and/or
    You have sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by this
    License.

    3.3. Required Notices.

    You must include a notice in each of Your Modifications that
    identifies You as the Contributor of the Modification.  You may
    not remove or alter any copyright, patent or trademark notices
    contained within the Covered Software, or any notices of licensing
    or any descriptive text giving attribution to any Contributor or
    the Initial Developer.

    3.4. Application of Additional Terms.

    You may not offer or impose any terms on any Covered Software in
    Source Code form that alters or restricts the applicable version
    of this License or the recipients' rights hereunder.  You may
    choose to offer, and to charge a fee for, warranty, support,
    indemnity or liability obligations to one or more recipients of
    Covered Software.  However, you may do so only on Your own behalf,
    and not on behalf of the Initial Developer or any Contributor.
    You must make it absolutely clear that any such warranty, support,
    indemnity or liability obligation is offered by You alone, and You
    hereby agree to indemnify the Initial Developer and every
    Contributor for any liability incurred by the Initial Developer or
    such Contributor as a result of warranty, support, indemnity or
    liability terms You offer.

    3.5. Distribution of Executable Versions.

    You may distribute the Executable form of the Covered Software
    under the terms of this License or under the terms of a license of
    Your choice, which may contain terms different from this License,
    provided that You are in compliance with the terms of this License
    and that the license for the Executable form does not attempt to
    limit or alter the recipient's rights in the Source Code form from
    the rights set forth in this License.  If You distribute the
    Covered Software in Executable form under a different license, You
    must make it absolutely clear that any terms which differ from
    this License are offered by You alone, not by the Initial
    Developer or Contributor.  You hereby agree to indemnify the
    Initial Developer and every Contributor for any liability incurred
    by the Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result of any
    such terms You offer.

    3.6. Larger Works.

    You may create a Larger Work by combining Covered Software with
    other code not governed by the terms of this License and
    distribute the Larger Work as a single product.  In such a case,
    You must make sure the requirements of this License are fulfilled
    for the Covered Software.

4. Versions of the License.

    4.1. New Versions.

    Sun Microsystems, Inc. is the initial license steward and may
    publish revised and/or new versions of this License from time to
    time.  Each version will be given a distinguishing version number.
    Except as provided in Section 4.3, no one other than the license
    steward has the right to modify this License.

    4.2. Effect of New Versions.

    You may always continue to use, distribute or otherwise make the
    Covered Software available under the terms of the version of the
    License under which You originally received the Covered Software.
    If the Initial Developer includes a notice in the Original
    Software prohibiting it from being distributed or otherwise made
    available under any subsequent version of the License, You must
    distribute and make the Covered Software available under the terms
    of the version of the License under which You originally received
    the Covered Software.  Otherwise, You may also choose to use,
    distribute or otherwise make the Covered Software available under
    the terms of any subsequent version of the License published by
    the license steward.

    4.3. Modified Versions.

    When You are an Initial Developer and You want to create a new
    license for Your Original Software, You may create and use a
    modified version of this License if You: (a) rename the license
    and remove any references to the name of the license steward
    (except to note that the license differs from this License); and
    (b) otherwise make it clear that the license contains terms which
    differ from this License.

5. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.

    COVERED SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS LICENSE ON AN "AS IS"
    BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED,
    INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE COVERED
    SOFTWARE IS FREE OF DEFECTS, MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR
    PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGING.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND
    PERFORMANCE OF THE COVERED SOFTWARE IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD ANY
    COVERED SOFTWARE PROVE DEFECTIVE IN ANY RESPECT, YOU (NOT THE
    INITIAL DEVELOPER OR ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR) ASSUME THE COST OF ANY
    NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.  THIS DISCLAIMER OF
    WARRANTY CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL PART OF THIS LICENSE.  NO USE OF
    ANY COVERED SOFTWARE IS AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THIS
    DISCLAIMER.

6. TERMINATION.

    6.1. This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate
    automatically if You fail to comply with terms herein and fail to
    cure such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach.
    Provisions which, by their nature, must remain in effect beyond
    the termination of this License shall survive.

    6.2. If You assert a patent infringement claim (excluding
    declaratory judgment actions) against Initial Developer or a
    Contributor (the Initial Developer or Contributor against whom You
    assert such claim is referred to as "Participant") alleging that
    the Participant Software (meaning the Contributor Version where
    the Participant is a Contributor or the Original Software where
    the Participant is the Initial Developer) directly or indirectly
    infringes any patent, then any and all rights granted directly or
    indirectly to You by such Participant, the Initial Developer (if
    the Initial Developer is not the Participant) and all Contributors
    under Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 of this License shall, upon 60 days
    notice from Participant terminate prospectively and automatically
    at the expiration of such 60 day notice period, unless if within
    such 60 day period You withdraw Your claim with respect to the
    Participant Software against such Participant either unilaterally
    or pursuant to a written agreement with Participant.

    6.3. In the event of termination under Sections 6.1 or 6.2 above,
    all end user licenses that have been validly granted by You or any
    distributor hereunder prior to termination (excluding licenses
    granted to You by any distributor) shall survive termination.

7. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.

    UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY, WHETHER TORT
    (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE, SHALL YOU, THE
    INITIAL DEVELOPER, ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR, OR ANY DISTRIBUTOR OF
    COVERED SOFTWARE, OR ANY SUPPLIER OF ANY OF SUCH PARTIES, BE
    LIABLE TO ANY PERSON FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR
    CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY CHARACTER INCLUDING, WITHOUT
    LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSS OF GOODWILL, WORK
    STOPPAGE, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, OR ANY AND ALL OTHER
    COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, EVEN IF SUCH PARTY SHALL HAVE BEEN
    INFORMED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.  THIS LIMITATION OF
    LIABILITY SHALL NOT APPLY TO LIABILITY FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL
    INJURY RESULTING FROM SUCH PARTY'S NEGLIGENCE TO THE EXTENT
    APPLICABLE LAW PROHIBITS SUCH LIMITATION.  SOME JURISDICTIONS DO
    NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR
    CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THIS EXCLUSION AND LIMITATION MAY NOT
    APPLY TO YOU.

8. U.S. GOVERNMENT END USERS.

    The Covered Software is a "commercial item," as that term is
    defined in 48 C.F.R. 2.101 (Oct. 1995), consisting of "commercial
    computer software" (as that term is defined at 48
    C.F.R. 252.227-7014(a)(1)) and "commercial computer software
    documentation" as such terms are used in 48 C.F.R. 12.212
    (Sept. 1995).  Consistent with 48 C.F.R. 12.212 and 48
    C.F.R. 227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4 (June 1995), all
    U.S. Government End Users acquire Covered Software with only those
    rights set forth herein.  This U.S. Government Rights clause is in
    lieu of, and supersedes, any other FAR, DFAR, or other clause or
    provision that addresses Government rights in computer software
    under this License.

9. MISCELLANEOUS.

    This License represents the complete agreement concerning subject
    matter hereof.  If any provision of this License is held to be
    unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent
    necessary to make it enforceable.  This License shall be governed
    by the law of the jurisdiction specified in a notice contained
    within the Original Software (except to the extent applicable law,
    if any, provides otherwise), excluding such jurisdiction's
    conflict-of-law provisions.  Any litigation relating to this
    License shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the courts located
    in the jurisdiction and venue specified in a notice contained
    within the Original Software, with the losing party responsible
    for costs, including, without limitation, court costs and
    reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses.  The application of the
    United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale
    of Goods is expressly excluded.  Any law or regulation which
    provides that the language of a contract shall be construed
    against the drafter shall not apply to this License.  You agree
    that You alone are responsible for compliance with the United
    States export administration regulations (and the export control
    laws and regulation of any other countries) when You use,
    distribute or otherwise make available any Covered Software.

10. RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLAIMS.

    As between Initial Developer and the Contributors, each party is
    responsible for claims and damages arising, directly or
    indirectly, out of its utilization of rights under this License
    and You agree to work with Initial Developer and Contributors to
    distribute such responsibility on an equitable basis.  Nothing
    herein is intended or shall be deemed to constitute any admission
    of liability.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTICE PURSUANT TO SECTION 9 OF THE COMMON DEVELOPMENT AND
DISTRIBUTION LICENSE (CDDL)

For Covered Software in this distribution, this License shall
be governed by the laws of the State of California (excluding
conflict-of-law provisions).

Any litigation relating to this License shall be subject to the
jurisdiction of the Federal Courts of the Northern District of
California and the state courts of the State of California, with
venue lying in Santa Clara County, California.

--------------------------------------------------------------------
APPLE PUBLIC SOURCE LICENSE
Version 2.0 - August 6, 2003

Please read this License carefully before downloading this software.
By downloading or using this software, you are agreeing to be bound by
the terms of this License. If you do not or cannot agree to the terms
of this License, please do not download or use the software.

1. General; Definitions. This License applies to any program or other
work which Apple Computer, Inc. ("Apple") makes publicly available and
which contains a notice placed by Apple identifying such program or
work as "Original Code" and stating that it is subject to the terms of
this Apple Public Source License version 2.0 ("License"). As used in
this License:

1.1 "Applicable Patent Rights" mean: (a) in the case where Apple is
the grantor of rights, (i) claims of patents that are now or hereafter
acquired, owned by or assigned to Apple and (ii) that cover subject
matter contained in the Original Code, but only to the extent
necessary to use, reproduce and/or distribute the Original Code
without infringement; and (b) in the case where You are the grantor of
rights, (i) claims of patents that are now or hereafter acquired,
owned by or assigned to You and (ii) that cover subject matter in Your
Modifications, taken alone or in combination with Original Code.

1.2 "Contributor" means any person or entity that creates or
contributes to the creation of Modifications.

1.3 "Covered Code" means the Original Code, Modifications, the
combination of Original Code and any Modifications, and/or any
respective portions thereof.

1.4 "Externally Deploy" means: (a) to sublicense, distribute or
otherwise make Covered Code available, directly or indirectly, to
anyone other than You; and/or (b) to use Covered Code, alone or as
part of a Larger Work, in any way to provide a service, including but
not limited to delivery of content, through electronic communication
with a client other than You.

1.5 "Larger Work" means a work which combines Covered Code or portions
thereof with code not governed by the terms of this License.

1.6 "Modifications" mean any addition to, deletion from, and/or change
to, the substance and/or structure of the Original Code, any previous
Modifications, the combination of Original Code and any previous
Modifications, and/or any respective portions thereof. When code is
released as a series of files, a Modification is: (a) any addition to
or deletion from the contents of a file containing Covered Code;
and/or (b) any new file or other representation of computer program
statements that contains any part of Covered Code.

1.7 "Original Code" means (a) the Source Code of a program or other
work as originally made available by Apple under this License,
including the Source Code of any updates or upgrades to such programs
or works made available by Apple under this License, and that has been
expressly identified by Apple as such in the header file(s) of such
work; and (b) the object code compiled from such Source Code and
originally made available by Apple under this License.

1.8 "Source Code" means the human readable form of a program or other
work that is suitable for making modifications to it, including all
modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition files,
scripts used to control compilation and installation of an executable
(object code).

1.9 "You" or "Your" means an individual or a legal entity exercising
rights under this License. For legal entities, "You" or "Your"
includes any entity which controls, is controlled by, or is under
common control with, You, where "control" means (a) the power, direct
or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity,
whether by contract or otherwise, or (b) ownership of fifty percent
(50%) or more of the outstanding shares or beneficial ownership of
such entity.

2. Permitted Uses; Conditions & Restrictions. Subject to the terms
and conditions of this License, Apple hereby grants You, effective on
the date You accept this License and download the Original Code, a
world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license, to the extent of
Apple's Applicable Patent Rights and copyrights covering the Original
Code, to do the following:

2.1 Unmodified Code. You may use, reproduce, display, perform,
internally distribute within Your organization, and Externally Deploy
verbatim, unmodified copies of the Original Code, for commercial or
non-commercial purposes, provided that in each instance:

(a) You must retain and reproduce in all copies of Original Code the
copyright and other proprietary notices and disclaimers of Apple as
they appear in the Original Code, and keep intact all notices in the
Original Code that refer to this License; and

(b) You must include a copy of this License with every copy of Source
Code of Covered Code and documentation You distribute or Externally
Deploy, and You may not offer or impose any terms on such Source Code
that alter or restrict this License or the recipients' rights
hereunder, except as permitted under Section 6.

2.2 Modified Code. You may modify Covered Code and use, reproduce,
display, perform, internally distribute within Your organization, and
Externally Deploy Your Modifications and Covered Code, for commercial
or non-commercial purposes, provided that in each instance You also
meet all of these conditions:

(a) You must satisfy all the conditions of Section 2.1 with respect to
the Source Code of the Covered Code;

(b) You must duplicate, to the extent it does not already exist, the
notice in Exhibit A in each file of the Source Code of all Your
Modifications, and cause the modified files to carry prominent notices
stating that You changed the files and the date of any change; and

(c) If You Externally Deploy Your Modifications, You must make
Source Code of all Your Externally Deployed Modifications either
available to those to whom You have Externally Deployed Your
Modifications, or publicly available. Source Code of Your Externally
Deployed Modifications must be released under the terms set forth in
this License, including the license grants set forth in Section 3
below, for as long as you Externally Deploy the Covered Code or twelve
(12) months from the date of initial External Deployment, whichever is
longer. You should preferably distribute the Source Code of Your
Externally Deployed Modifications electronically (e.g. download from a
web site).

2.3 Distribution of Executable Versions. In addition, if You
Externally Deploy Covered Code (Original Code and/or Modifications) in
object code, executable form only, You must include a prominent
notice, in the code itself as well as in related documentation,
stating that Source Code of the Covered Code is available under the
terms of this License with information on how and where to obtain such
Source Code.

2.4 Third Party Rights. You expressly acknowledge and agree that
although Apple and each Contributor grants the licenses to their
respective portions of the Covered Code set forth herein, no
assurances are provided by Apple or any Contributor that the Covered
Code does not infringe the patent or other intellectual property
rights of any other entity. Apple and each Contributor disclaim any
liability to You for claims brought by any other entity based on
infringement of intellectual property rights or otherwise. As a
condition to exercising the rights and licenses granted hereunder, You
hereby assume sole responsibility to secure any other intellectual
property rights needed, if any. For example, if a third party patent
license is required to allow You to distribute the Covered Code, it is
Your responsibility to acquire that license before distributing the
Covered Code.

3. Your Grants. In consideration of, and as a condition to, the
licenses granted to You under this License, You hereby grant to any
person or entity receiving or distributing Covered Code under this
License a non-exclusive, royalty-free, perpetual, irrevocable license,
under Your Applicable Patent Rights and other intellectual property
rights (other than patent) owned or controlled by You, to use,
reproduce, display, perform, modify, sublicense, distribute and
Externally Deploy Your Modifications of the same scope and extent as
Apple's licenses under Sections 2.1 and 2.2 above.

4. Larger Works. You may create a Larger Work by combining Covered
Code with other code not governed by the terms of this License and
distribute the Larger Work as a single product. In each such instance,
You must make sure the requirements of this License are fulfilled for
the Covered Code or any portion thereof.

5. Limitations on Patent License. Except as expressly stated in
Section 2, no other patent rights, express or implied, are granted by
Apple herein. Modifications and/or Larger Works may require additional
patent licenses from Apple which Apple may grant in its sole
discretion.

6. Additional Terms. You may choose to offer, and to charge a fee for,
warranty, support, indemnity or liability obligations and/or other
rights consistent with the scope of the license granted herein
("Additional Terms") to one or more recipients of Covered Code.
However, You may do so only on Your own behalf and as Your sole
responsibility, and not on behalf of Apple or any Contributor. You
must obtain the recipient's agreement that any such Additional Terms
are offered by You alone, and You hereby agree to indemnify, defend
and hold Apple and every Contributor harmless for any liability
incurred by or claims asserted against Apple or such Contributor by
reason of any such Additional Terms.

7. Versions of the License. Apple may publish revised and/or new
versions of this License from time to time. Each version will be given
a distinguishing version number. Once Original Code has been published
under a particular version of this License, You may continue to use it
under the terms of that version. You may also choose to use such
Original Code under the terms of any subsequent version of this
License published by Apple. No one other than Apple has the right to
modify the terms applicable to Covered Code created under this
License.

8. NO WARRANTY OR SUPPORT. The Covered Code may contain in whole or in
part pre-release, untested, or not fully tested works. The Covered
Code may contain errors that could cause failures or loss of data, and
may be incomplete or contain inaccuracies. You expressly acknowledge
and agree that use of the Covered Code, or any portion thereof, is at
Your sole and entire risk. THE COVERED CODE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND
WITHOUT WARRANTY, UPGRADES OR SUPPORT OF ANY KIND AND APPLE AND
APPLE'S LICENSOR(S) (COLLECTIVELY REFERRED TO AS "APPLE" FOR THE
PURPOSES OF SECTIONS 8 AND 9) AND ALL CONTRIBUTORS EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM
ALL WARRANTIES AND/OR CONDITIONS, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND/OR CONDITIONS OF
MERCHANTABILITY, OF SATISFACTORY QUALITY, OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE, OF ACCURACY, OF QUIET ENJOYMENT, AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD
PARTY RIGHTS. APPLE AND EACH CONTRIBUTOR DOES NOT WARRANT AGAINST
INTERFERENCE WITH YOUR ENJOYMENT OF THE COVERED CODE, THAT THE
FUNCTIONS CONTAINED IN THE COVERED CODE WILL MEET YOUR REQUIREMENTS,
THAT THE OPERATION OF THE COVERED CODE WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR
ERROR-FREE, OR THAT DEFECTS IN THE COVERED CODE WILL BE CORRECTED. NO
ORAL OR WRITTEN INFORMATION OR ADVICE GIVEN BY APPLE, AN APPLE
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OR ANY CONTRIBUTOR SHALL CREATE A WARRANTY.
You acknowledge that the Covered Code is not intended for use in the
operation of nuclear facilities, aircraft navigation, communication
systems, or air traffic control machines in which case the failure of
the Covered Code could lead to death, personal injury, or severe
physical or environmental damage.

9. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. TO THE EXTENT NOT PROHIBITED BY LAW, IN NO
EVENT SHALL APPLE OR ANY CONTRIBUTOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING
TO THIS LICENSE OR YOUR USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE COVERED CODE, OR
ANY PORTION THEREOF, WHETHER UNDER A THEORY OF CONTRACT, WARRANTY,
TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), PRODUCTS LIABILITY OR OTHERWISE, EVEN IF
APPLE OR SUCH CONTRIBUTOR HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES AND NOTWITHSTANDING THE FAILURE OF ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF ANY
REMEDY. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE LIMITATION OF LIABILITY OF
INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THIS LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY
TO YOU. In no event shall Apple's total liability to You for all
damages (other than as may be required by applicable law) under this
License exceed the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00).

10. Trademarks. This License does not grant any rights to use the
trademarks or trade names "Apple", "Apple Computer", "Mac", "Mac OS",
"QuickTime", "QuickTime Streaming Server" or any other trademarks,
service marks, logos or trade names belonging to Apple (collectively
"Apple Marks") or to any trademark, service mark, logo or trade name
belonging to any Contributor. You agree not to use any Apple Marks in
or as part of the name of products derived from the Original Code or
to endorse or promote products derived from the Original Code other
than as expressly permitted by and in strict compliance at all times
with Apple's third party trademark usage guidelines which are posted
at http://www.apple.com/legal/guidelinesfor3rdparties.html.

11. Ownership. Subject to the licenses granted under this License,
each Contributor retains all rights, title and interest in and to any
Modifications made by such Contributor. Apple retains all rights,
title and interest in and to the Original Code and any Modifications
made by or on behalf of Apple ("Apple Modifications"), and such Apple
Modifications will not be automatically subject to this License. Apple
may, at its sole discretion, choose to license such Apple
Modifications under this License, or on different terms from those
contained in this License or may choose not to license them at all.

12. Termination.

12.1 Termination. This License and the rights granted hereunder will
terminate:

(a) automatically without notice from Apple if You fail to comply with
any term(s) of this License and fail to cure such breach within 30
days of becoming aware of such breach;

(b) immediately in the event of the circumstances described in Section
13.5(b); or

(c) automatically without notice from Apple if You, at any time during
the term of this License, commence an action for patent infringement
against Apple; provided that Apple did not first commence
an action for patent infringement against You in that instance.

12.2 Effect of Termination. Upon termination, You agree to immediately
stop any further use, reproduction, modification, sublicensing and
distribution of the Covered Code. All sublicenses to the Covered Code
which have been properly granted prior to termination shall survive
any termination of this License. Provisions which, by their nature,
should remain in effect beyond the termination of this License shall
survive, including but not limited to Sections 3, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11,
12.2 and 13. No party will be liable to any other for compensation,
indemnity or damages of any sort solely as a result of terminating
this License in accordance with its terms, and termination of this
License will be without prejudice to any other right or remedy of
any party.

13. Miscellaneous.

13.1 Government End Users. The Covered Code is a "commercial item" as
defined in FAR 2.101. Government software and technical data rights in
the Covered Code include only those rights customarily provided to the
public as defined in this License. This customary commercial license
in technical data and software is provided in accordance with FAR
12.211 (Technical Data) and 12.212 (Computer Software) and, for
Department of Defense purchases, DFAR 252.227-7015 (Technical Data --
Commercial Items) and 227.7202-3 (Rights in Commercial Computer
Software or Computer Software Documentation). Accordingly, all U.S.
Government End Users acquire Covered Code with only those rights set
forth herein.

13.2 Relationship of Parties. This License will not be construed as
creating an agency, partnership, joint venture or any other form of
legal association between or among You, Apple or any Contributor, and
You will not represent to the contrary, whether expressly, by
implication, appearance or otherwise.

13.3 Independent Development. Nothing in this License will impair
Apple's right to acquire, license, develop, have others develop for
it, market and/or distribute technology or products that perform the
same or similar functions as, or otherwise compete with,
Modifications, Larger Works, technology or products that You may
develop, produce, market or distribute.

13.4 Waiver; Construction. Failure by Apple or any Contributor to
enforce any provision of this License will not be deemed a waiver of
future enforcement of that or any other provision. Any law or
regulation which provides that the language of a contract shall be
construed against the drafter will not apply to this License.

13.5 Severability. (a) If for any reason a court of competent
jurisdiction finds any provision of this License, or portion thereof,
to be unenforceable, that provision of the License will be enforced to
the maximum extent permissible so as to effect the economic benefits
and intent of the parties, and the remainder of this License will
continue in full force and effect. (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing,
if applicable law prohibits or restricts You from fully and/or
specifically complying with Sections 2 and/or 3 or prevents the
enforceability of either of those Sections, this License will
immediately terminate and You must immediately discontinue any use of
the Covered Code and destroy all copies of it that are in your
possession or control.

13.6 Dispute Resolution. Any litigation or other dispute resolution
between You and Apple relating to this License shall take place in the
Northern District of California, and You and Apple hereby consent to
the personal jurisdiction of, and venue in, the state and federal
courts within that District with respect to this License. The
application of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the
International Sale of Goods is expressly excluded.

13.7 Entire Agreement; Governing Law. This License constitutes the
entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject
matter hereof. This License shall be governed by the laws of the
United States and the State of California, except that body of
California law concerning conflicts of law.

Where You are located in the province of Quebec, Canada, the following
clause applies: The parties hereby confirm that they have requested
that this License and all related documents be drafted in English. Les
parties ont exige que le present contrat et tous les documents
connexes soient rediges en anglais.

EXHIBIT A.

"Portions Copyright (c) 1999-2003 Apple Computer, Inc. All Rights
Reserved.

This file contains Original Code and/or Modifications of Original Code
as defined in and that are subject to the Apple Public Source License
Version 2.0 (the 'License'). You may not use this file except in
compliance with the License. Please obtain a copy of the License at
http://www.opensource.apple.com/apsl/ and read it before using this
file.

The Original Code and all software distributed under the License are
distributed on an 'AS IS' basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, QUIET ENJOYMENT OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.
Please see the License for the specific language governing rights and
limitations under the License."
