{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2512
\cocoascreenfonts1\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17820\viewh11820\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li360\slleading40\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 WARNING:
\f2\b0  ZFS is not in and of itself a backup. You should have INDEPENDENT backups of all of your data, whether it is on ZFS or not. You only have a backup of a pool if every disk in the pool can simultaneously end up in a swimming pool, and yet you still have your data.
\f0 \
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\slleading40\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f3\b Forum
\f0\b0  and 
\f3\b wiki:\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\slleading40\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1
\f0\b0 \cf0 		{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://openzfsonosx.org"}}{\fldrslt https://openzfsonosx.org}} ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://o3x.org"}}{\fldrslt http://o3x.org}})\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\slleading40\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}If you want to help with development:\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\slleading40\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 		{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/openzfsonosx"}}{\fldrslt https://github.com/openzfsonosx}}\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\slleading40\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Bug reports and enhancement suggestions:\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\slleading40\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 		{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/openzfsonosx/openzfs/issues"}}{\fldrslt https://github.com/openzfsonosx/openzfs/issues}}\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li360\slleading40\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 About OpenZFS on OS X
\f0\b0 \
\
OpenZFS on OS X brings OpenZFS to Mac OS X. It is a free software project released under the CDDL and the Apple Public Source License.\
\

\f1\b Backups
\f0\b0 \
\
Please note that all software is known to contain bugs. While care has been taken to ensure that under normal operations things don't go wrong, there's no guarantee of that fact. Using kernel extensions introduces a degree of instability into a system that userland processes don't encounter; the software has been known to cause kernel panics in the past. In addition, any file system has the possibility of causing damage to files. While ZFS creates checksums of all blocks (and so can detect failure earlier than in other systems), there is no guarantee that your data will be accessible in the event of problems. You should therefore take full responsibility for backups of data in the event that a restoration is needed. Any single filing system, including ZFS, is not a substitute for backups.\
\

\f1\b Disclaimer
\f0\b0 \
\
The Original Code and all software distributed under the License are distributed on an 'AS IS' basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND APPLE HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL SUCH WARRANTIES, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, QUIET ENJOYMENT OR NON-INFRINGEMENT.\
\
Please see the License for the specific language governing rights and limitations under the License.}