'\" t
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2016 Gvozden Nešković. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH RAIDZ_TEST 1 "Aug 24, 2020" OpenZFS

.SH NAME
\fBraidz_test\fR \- raidz implementation verification and benchmarking tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "raidz_test <options>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
This manual page documents briefly the \fBraidz_test\fR command.
.LP
Purpose of this tool is to run all supported raidz implementation and verify
results of all methods. Tool also contains a parameter sweep option where all
parameters affecting RAIDZ block are verified (like ashift size, data offset,
data size, etc...).
The tool also supports a benchmarking mode using -B option.
.SH OPTION
.HP
.BI "\-h" ""
.IP
Print a help summary.
.HP
.BI "\-a" " ashift (default: 9)"
.IP
Ashift value.
.HP
.BI "\-o" " zio_off_shift" " (default: 0)"
.IP
Zio offset for raidz block. Offset value is 1 << (zio_off_shift)
.HP
.BI "\-d" " raidz_data_disks" " (default: 8)"
.IP
Number of raidz data disks to use. Additional disks for parity will be used
during testing.
.HP
.BI "\-s" " zio_size_shift" " (default: 19)"
.IP
Size of data for raidz block. Size is 1 << (zio_size_shift).
.HP
.BI "\-r" " reflow_offset" " (default: uint max)"
.IP
Set raidz expansion offset. The expanded raidz map allocation function will
produce different map configurations depending on this value.
.HP
.BI "\-S(weep)"
.IP
Sweep parameter space while verifying the raidz implementations. This option
will exhaust all most of valid values for -a -o -d -s options. Runtime using
this option will be long.
.HP
.BI "\-t(imeout)"
.IP
Wall time for sweep test in seconds. The actual runtime could be longer.
.HP
.BI "\-B(enchmark)"
.IP
This options starts the benchmark mode. All implementations are benchmarked
using increasing per disk data size. Results are given as throughput per disk,
measured in MiB/s.
.HP
.BI "\-e(xpansion)"
.IP
Use expanded raidz map allocation function.
.HP
.BI "\-v(erbose)"
.IP
Increase verbosity.
.HP
.BI "\-T(est the test)"
.IP
Debugging option. When this option is specified tool is supposed to fail
all tests. This is to check if tests would properly verify bit-exactness.
.HP
.BI "\-D(ebug)"
.IP
Debugging option. Specify to attach gdb when SIGSEGV or SIGABRT are received.
.HP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR "ztest (1)"
.SH "AUTHORS"
vdev_raidz, created for OpenZFS by Gvozden Nešković <neskovic@gmail.com>
