.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2013 Darik Horn <dajhorn@vanadac.com>. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" lint-ok: WARNING: sections out of conventional order: Sh SYNOPSIS
.\"
.Dd May 26, 2021
.Dt ZHACK 1
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zhack
.Nd libzpool debugging tool
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This utility pokes configuration changes directly into a ZFS pool,
which is dangerous and can cause data corruption.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Xo
.Nm zhack
.Cm feature stat
.Ar pool
.Xc
List feature flags.
.
.It Xo
.Nm zhack
.Cm feature enable
.Op Fl d Ar description
.Op Fl r
.Ar pool
.Ar guid
.Xc
Add a new feature to
.Ar pool
that is uniquely identified by
.Ar guid ,
which is specified in the same form as a
.Xr zfs 8
user property.
.Pp
The
.Ar description
is a short human readable explanation of the new feature.
.Pp
The
.Fl r
flag indicates that
.Ar pool
can be safely opened in read-only mode by a system that does not understand the
.Ar guid
feature.
.
.It Xo
.Nm zhack
.Cm feature ref
.Op Fl d Ns | Ns Fl m
.Ar pool
.Ar guid
.Xc
Increment the reference count of the
.Ar guid
feature in
.Ar pool .
.Pp
The
.Fl d
flag decrements the reference count of the
.Ar guid
feature in
.Ar pool
instead.
.Pp
The
.Fl m
flag indicates that the
.Ar guid
feature is now required to read the pool MOS.
.
.It Xo
.Nm zhack
.Cm scrub
.Ar pool
.Xc
Import and scrub a pool, entirely from userland.
This is mostly useful for developers and is substantially less friendly than
scrubbing an imported pool.
In particular, there is no status reporting mechanism, and so any discovered
errors are not easily identified.
.Pp
The \fB\-n\fR option causes the program to only resume a scrub (or resilver) if
one was in progress at time of export; that is, it will not begin a new scrub.
Contrawise, \fB\-R\fR will forcibly restart any existing scrub or resilver, and
has no effect if one was not in progress at time of export.
.Pp
The \fB\-r\fR option requests the tool to (re)start a resilver rather than a
scrub (the default).
.Pp
The \fB\-s\fR and \fB\-p\fR options cause the program, respectively, to stop
and pause any ongoing scan and take no further action.
While resilvers cannot ordinarily be cancelled, pairing \fB-s\fR and \fB-r\fR
will do so, but, in many circumstances, ZFS will initiate a resilver at the
pool's next import anyway.
.Pp
The \fB\-i seconds\fR option controls the inter-checkpoint time of the scan.
That is, every \fBseconds\fR seconds, the scan will drain its queue of blocks
to scan in media order.
.Pp
The \fB\-t milliseconds\fR option adjusts the minimum time devoted to the
requested operation each transaction group and \fB\-x seconds\fR sets the
baseline transaction group timeout.
Adjusting these higher in tandem will reduce write traffic to the pool by doing
more scanning per transaction group (and will reduce the rate of status updates
from the program as a side effect).
.Pp
The \fB\-M\fR option overrides ZFS's detection of the amount of physical memory
to use, limiting the ARC and the scan queue; it counts in multples of
\fBsysconf(_SC_PAGE_SIZE)\fR bytes.
.Pp
The \fB\-D class\fR option specifies the DDT class(es) to scan specially.
Setting \fBclass\fR to 0 will limit special handling to dedup-ditto blocks.
The value 1 will ensure that the scan will visit all deduplicated blocks with
refcounts greater than one a single time, but will require that the DDT be
frequently accessed during scan.
The value 2 will cause the scan to walk all DDT entries, including those with
refcount one, and will then not need to probe the DDT during the residual scan
of non-deduplicated blocks.
The default behavior is as if the value 1 had been specified.
Pass \fB\-E\fR to attempt to change the DDT class on an existing scrub; the tool
will refuse to execute any unsafe change (i.e., downwards).
.Pp
Give \fB\-v\fR to cause the command to be chatty during initialization.
.Pp
The \fB\-G\fR, \fB\-H\fR, \fB\-O\fR, \fB\-P\fR, \fB\-S\fR, and \fB\-T\fR options
affect internal parameters of ZFS and are almost surely of interest only to
developers seeking to explore the scrub algorithm; for details, please see the
source.
.El
.Sh GLOBAL OPTIONS
The following can be passed to all
.Nm
invocations before any subcommand:
.Bl -tag -width "-d dir"
.It Fl c Ar cachefile
Read
.Ar pool
configuration from the
.Ar cachefile ,
which is
.Pa /etc/zfs/zpool.cache
by default.
.It Fl d Ar dir
Search for
.Ar pool
members in
.Ar dir .
Can be specified more than once.
.El
.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal
# zhack feature stat tank
for_read_obj:
	org.illumos:lz4_compress = 0
for_write_obj:
	com.delphix:async_destroy = 0
	com.delphix:empty_bpobj = 0
descriptions_obj:
	com.delphix:async_destroy = Destroy filesystems asynchronously.
	com.delphix:empty_bpobj = Snapshots use less space.
	org.illumos:lz4_compress = LZ4 compression algorithm support.

# zhack feature enable -d 'Predict future disk failures.' \\
    tank com.example:clairvoyance

# zhack feature ref tank com.example:clairvoyance
.Ed
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ztest 1 ,
.Xr zpool-features 5 ,
.Xr zfs 8
