.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: CDDL-1.0
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License, Version 1.0 only
.\" (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance
.\" with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://opensource.org/licenses/CDDL-1.0.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2026 Christos Longros.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.Dd March 9, 2026
.Dt ZILSTAT 1
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm zilstat
.Nd report ZFS Intent Log statistics
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl a Ns | Ns Fl p Ar pool Ns | Ns Fl d Ar dataset Ns Op , Ns Ar dataset Ns …
.Op Fl f Ar field Ns Op , Ns Ar field Ns …
.Op Fl s Ar separator
.Op Fl i Ar interval
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
prints statistics about the ZFS Intent Log (ZIL).
The ZIL is used to log synchronous write operations and is replayed on
pool import if the system crashes before those writes are committed to
the main pool.
.Pp
By default, global ZIL statistics are displayed.
When a pool or dataset is specified, per-dataset statistics are shown
instead.
.Pp
If an
.Ar interval
is specified, the output is repeated every
.Ar interval
seconds showing the change in values since the previous sample.
Without an interval, cumulative values are displayed.
.Pp
The following fields are available:
.Bl -tag -compact -offset Ds -width "imnw"
.It Sy time
Current time
.It Sy pool
Pool name
.It Sy ds
Dataset name
.It Sy obj
Objset ID
.It Sy cc
Commit count
.It Sy cwc
Commit writer count
.It Sy cec
Commit error count
.It Sy csc
Commit stall count
.It Sy cSc
Commit suspend count
.It Sy cCc
Commit crash count
.It Sy ic
In-transaction count
.It Sy iic
Indirect in-transaction count
.It Sy iib
Indirect in-transaction bytes
.It Sy icc
Copied in-transaction count
.It Sy icb
Copied in-transaction bytes
.It Sy inc
Needcopy in-transaction count
.It Sy inb
Needcopy in-transaction bytes
.It Sy idc
Direct (copied + needcopy) count
.It Sy idb
Direct (copied + needcopy) bytes
.It Sy iwc
Total write (indirect + direct) count
.It Sy iwb
Total write (indirect + direct) bytes
.It Sy imnc
Normal metaslab count
.It Sy imnb
Normal metaslab bytes
.It Sy imnw
Normal metaslab write bytes
.It Sy imna
Normal metaslab alloc bytes
.It Sy imsc
SLOG metaslab count
.It Sy imsb
SLOG metaslab bytes
.It Sy imsw
SLOG metaslab write bytes
.It Sy imsa
SLOG metaslab alloc bytes
.It Sy imc
Total metaslab (normal + SLOG) count
.It Sy imb
Total metaslab (normal + SLOG) bytes
.It Sy imw
Total metaslab (normal + SLOG) write bytes
.It Sy ima
Total metaslab (normal + SLOG) alloc bytes
.It Sy se%
Space efficiency percentage (bytes / alloc)
.It Sy sen%
Normal space efficiency percentage
.It Sy ses%
SLOG space efficiency percentage
.It Sy te%
Total efficiency percentage (bytes / write)
.It Sy ten%
Normal total efficiency percentage
.It Sy tes%
SLOG total efficiency percentage
.El
.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "-s"
.It Fl h
Display a help message.
.It Fl a
Print statistics for all datasets across all pools.
.It Fl d Ar dataset
Print statistics for the specified dataset(s).
Multiple datasets may be given as a comma-separated list.
.It Fl f Ar field
Display only the specified fields.
Multiple fields may be given as a comma-separated list.
See
.Sx DESCRIPTION
for available fields.
.It Fl i Ar interval
Print statistics every
.Ar interval
seconds.
Values are reported as rates per second.
.It Fl p Ar pool
Print statistics for all datasets in the specified pool.
.It Fl s Ar separator
Override the default field separator
.Pq two spaces
with a custom string.
.It Fl v
List all available field headers and their definitions.
.El
.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width "Linux"
.It Sy Linux
Statistics are read from
.Pa /proc/spl/kstat/zfs/zil
for global stats and from per-pool objset files under
.Pa /proc/spl/kstat/zfs/ Ns Ar pool Ns Pa / .
.It Sy FreeBSD
Statistics are read via
.Xr sysctl 8
from the
.Sy kstat.zfs
tree.
.El
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zarcstat 1 ,
.Xr zpool-status 8
.
.Sh AUTHORS
This manual page was written by
.An Christos Longros Aq Mt chris.longros@gmail.com .
