.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH run 1 "23 Sep 2012"
.SH NAME
run \- find, execute, and log the results of tests
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBrun\fR [\fB-dgq] [\fB-o\fR \fIoutputdir\fR] [\fB-pP\fR \fIscript\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fIseconds\fR] [\fB-uxX\fR \fIusername\fR]
    \fIpathname\fR ...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrun\fR \fB-w\fR \fIrunfile\fR [\fB-gq\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIoutputdir\fR] [\fB-pP\fR \fIscript\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fIseconds\fR]
    [\fB-uxX\fR \fIusername\fR] \fIpathname\fR ...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrun\fR \fB-c\fR \fIrunfile\fR [\fB-dq\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrun\fR [\fB-h\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBrun\fR command has three basic modes of operation. With neither the
\fB-c\fR nor the \fB-w\fR option, \fBrun\fR processes the arguments provided on
the command line, adding them to the list for this run. If a specified
\fIpathname\fR is an executable file, it is added as a test. If a specified
\fIpathname\fR is a directory, the behavior depends upon the \fB-g\fR option.
If \fB-g\fR is specified, the directory is treated as a test group. See the
section on "Test Groups" below. Without the \fB-g\fR option, \fBrun\fR simply
descends into the directory looking for executable files. The tests are then
executed, and the results are logged.

With the \fB-w\fR option, \fBrun\fR finds tests in the manner described above.
Rather than executing the tests and logging the results, the test configuration
is stored in a \fIrunfile\fR which can be used in future invocations, or edited
to modify which tests are executed and which options are applied. Options
included on the command line with \fB-w\fR become defaults in the
\fIrunfile\fR.

With the \fB-c\fR option, \fBrun\fR parses a \fIrunfile\fR, which can specify a
series of tests and test groups to be executed. The tests are then executed,
and the results are logged.
.sp
.SS "Test Groups"
.sp
.LP
A test group is comprised of a set of executable files, all of which exist in
one directory. The options specified on the command line or in a \fIrunfile\fR
apply to individual tests in the group. The exception is options pertaining to
pre and post scripts, which act on all tests as a group. Rather than running
before and after each test, these scripts are run only once each at the start
and end of the test group.
.SS "Test Execution"
.sp
.LP
The specified tests run serially, and are typically assigned results according
to exit values. Tests that exit zero and non-zero are marked "PASS" and "FAIL"
respectively. When a pre script fails for a test group, only the post script is
executed, and the remaining tests are marked "SKIPPED." Any test that exceeds
its \fItimeout\fR is terminated, and marked "KILLED."

By default, tests are executed with the credentials of the \fBrun\fR script.
Executing tests with other credentials is done via \fBsudo\fR(1m), which must
be configured to allow execution without prompting for a password. Environment
variables from the calling shell are available to individual tests. During test
execution, the working directory is changed to \fIoutputdir\fR.
.SS "Output Logging"
.sp
.LP
By default, \fBrun\fR will print one line on standard output at the conclusion
of each test indicating the test name, result and elapsed time. Additionally,
for each invocation of \fBrun\fR, a directory is created using the ISO 8601
date format. Within this directory is a file named \fIlog\fR containing all the
test output with timestamps, and a directory for each test. Within the test
directories, there is one file each for standard output, standard error and
merged output. The default location for the \fIoutputdir\fR is
\fI/var/tmp/test_results\fR.
.SS "Runfiles"
.sp
.LP
The \fIrunfile\fR is an ini style configuration file that describes a test run.
The file has one section named "DEFAULT," which contains configuration option
names and their values in "name = value" format. The values in this section
apply to all the subsequent sections, unless they are also specified there, in
which case the default is overridden. The remaining section names are the
absolute pathnames of files and directories, describing tests and test groups
respectively. The legal option names are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBoutputdir\fR = \fIpathname\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the directory that holds test logs.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBpre\fR = \fIscript\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Run \fIscript\fR prior to the test or test group.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBpre_user\fR = \fIusername\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Execute the pre script as \fIusername\fR.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBpost\fR = \fIscript\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Run \fIscript\fR after the test or test group.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBpost_user\fR = \fIusername\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Execute the post script as \fIusername\fR.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBquiet\fR = [\fITrue\fR|\fIFalse\fR]
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If set to True, only the results summary is printed to standard out.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBtests\fR = [\fI'filename'\fR [,...]]
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify a list of \fIfilenames\fR for this test group. Only the basename of the
absolute path is required. This option is only valid for test groups, and each
\fIfilename\fR must be single quoted.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBtimeout\fR = \fIn\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A timeout value of \fIn\fR seconds.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBuser\fR = \fIusername\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Execute the test or test group as \fIusername\fR.
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are available for the \fBrun\fR command.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB-c\fR \fIrunfile\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Specify a \fIrunfile\fR to be consumed by the run command.
.RE

.ne 2
.na
\fB-d\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Dry run mode. Execute no tests, but print a description of each test that would
have been run.
.RE

.ne 2
.na
\fB-g\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Create test groups from any directories found while searching for tests.
.RE

.ne 2
.na
\fB-o\fR \fIoutputdir\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Specify the directory in which to write test results.
.RE

.ne 2
.na
\fB-p\fR \fIscript\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Run \fIscript\fR prior to any test or test group.
.RE

.ne 2
.na
\fB-P\fR \fIscript\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Run \fIscript\fR after any test or test group.
.RE

.ne 2
.na
\fB-q\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Print only the results summary to the standard output.
.RE

.ne 2
.na
\fB-s\fR \fIscript\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Run \fIscript\fR as a failsafe after any test is killed.
.RE

.ne 2
.na
\fB-S\fR \fIusername\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Execute the failsafe script as \fIusername\fR.
.RE

.ne 2
.na
\fB-t\fR \fIn\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Specify a timeout value of \fIn\fR seconds per test.
.RE

.ne 2
.na
\fB-u\fR \fIusername\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Execute tests or test groups as \fIusername\fR.
.RE

.ne 2
.na
\fB-w\fR \fIrunfile\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Specify the name of the \fIrunfile\fR to create.
.RE

.ne 2
.na
\fB-x\fR \fIusername\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Execute the pre script as \fIusername\fR.
.RE

.ne 2
.na
\fB-X\fR \fIusername\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Execute the post script as \fIusername\fR.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Running ad-hoc tests.
.sp
.LP
This example demonstrates the simplest invocation of \fBrun\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% \fBrun my-tests\fR
Test: /home/jkennedy/my-tests/test-01                    [00:02] [PASS]
Test: /home/jkennedy/my-tests/test-02                    [00:04] [PASS]
Test: /home/jkennedy/my-tests/test-03                    [00:01] [PASS]

Results Summary
PASS       3

Running Time:   00:00:07
Percent passed: 100.0%
Log directory:  /var/tmp/test_results/20120923T180654
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 2\fR Creating a \fIrunfile\fR for future use.
.sp
.LP
This example demonstrates creating a \fIrunfile\fR with non default options.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% \fBrun -p setup -x root -g -w new-tests.run new-tests\fR
% \fBcat new-tests.run\fR
[DEFAULT]
pre = setup
post_user =
quiet = False
user =
timeout = 60
post =
pre_user = root
outputdir = /var/tmp/test_results

[/home/jkennedy/new-tests]
tests = ['test-01', 'test-02', 'test-03']
.fi
.in -2

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Successful completion.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsudo\fR(1m)
